At least two basic categories of earthquake prediction exist: short-term predictions and forecast ones. Short term earthquake predictions are made hours or days in advance, while forecasts are predicted months to years in advance. The majority of studies are done on forecast, taking into consideration the history of earthquakes in specific countries and areas. In this context, the core idea of this work is to predict whereas an event is classified as negative or positive major earthquake by applying different machine learning algorithms. Eight different algorithms have been applied on a real earthquake dataset, namely: Random Forest, Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression, MultiLayer Perceptron, AdaBoost, K -nearest neighbors, Support Vector Machine, and Classification and Regression Trees. For each selected model, various hyperparameters have been selected, and obtained prediction results have been fairly compared using various metrics, leading to a reliable prediction of major events for 3 of them.
The authors consider the gravitational precursors of Mega Earthquakes in Asia and Southeast Asia: Sichuan earthquake, M7.9, May 12, 2008; Andaman Islands earthquake, M7.5, August 10, 2009; Samoa Islands earthquake, M8.1, September 29, 2009; Northern Sumatra earthquake, M7.8, April 06,2010; Tohoku earthquake, M9, March 11, 2011. All gravitational precursors were recorded using of ATROPATENA earthquake prediction stations. The creation of an international earthquake prediction system based on the results obtained is proposed. To monitor spatio-temporal variations of the gravitational field, special detectors named ATROPATENA stations have been developed and made. The detectors continuously measure the value of the gravitational constant G in mutually perpendicular directions and relative values of gravity Delta g. Before and after the Mega Earthquakes in Asia and Southeast Asia, variations of the Earth's gravitational field were registered at large distances from the epicenter (near 8000 km); they were measured with the ATROPATENA stations in the following location: Baku (Azerbaijan) and Yogyakarta (Indonesia). Indications of the Cavendish balance when measuring the gravitational constant G are influenced by spatio-temporal changes in external gravitational fields of geological origin, which alter over time indications of the true values of G. Measuring the true value of the gravitational constant G on the Earth's surface with accuracy greater than the second digit after the decimal point is not possible due to the spatio-temporal variations of the gravitational field as a result of the impact of geodynamic processes. For the first time, the true cause of variations of the recorded values of the gravitational constant G has been identified. These variations were the subject of scientific dispute throughout the last century.
Earthquake phase association algorithms aggregate picked seismic phases from a network of seismometers into individual sesimic events and play an important role in earthquake monitoring and research. Dense seismic networks and improved phase picking methods produce massive seismic phase datasets, particularly for earthquake swarms and aftershocks occurring closely in time and space, making phase association a challenging problem. We present a new association method, the Gaussian Mixture Model Association (GaMMA), that combines the Gaussian mixture model with earthquake location, origin time, and magnitude estimation. We treat earthquake phase association as an unsupervised clustering problem in a probabilistic framework, where each earthquake corresponds to a cluster of P and S phases with a hyperbolic moveout of arrival times and a decay of amplitude with distance. We use the multivariate Gaussian distribution to model the collection of phase picks of an event; and the mean of the multivariate Gaussian distribution is given by the predicted arrival time and amplitude from the causative event. We carry out the pick assignment to each earthquake and determine earthquake source parameters (i.e., earthquake location, origin time, and magnitude) under the maximum likelihood criterion using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm. The GaMMA method does not require typical association steps of other algorithms, such as grid-search or supervised training. The results for both synthetic tests and for the 2019 Ridgecrest earthquake sequence show that GaMMA effectively associates phases from a temporally and spatially dense earthquake sequence while producing useful estimates of earthquake location and magnitude.
The M-L 6.1 earthquake that occurred on June 18, 2013 in Kuzbass is the strongest seismic event related to mining operations in this region. Opinions about its genesis differ. On the one hand, its hypocenter and most aftershocks occurred directly underneath the Bachat open-pit mine, which suggests that this seismic event was due to anthropogenic impacts. On the other hand, the earthquake focus was located at a depth of several kilometers, which, according to some authors, argues against the anthropogenic factor - the technogenic change in the parameters of the stress field was insignificant against the lithostatic pressure and, especially, the rock strength (e.g. [Lovchikov, 2016]). Our study aims to discover and assess an impact of the mining operations in the near-surface areas of the crust, investigate whether the Bachat earthquake was caused by the mining operations, and clarify which processes in particular were the most probable triggers of dynamic movement in the Bachat earthquake source. The probable geometrical parameters of the fault plane were estimated from the structural and tectonic conditions of the study area and the published locations of the aftershocks [Emanov et al., 2017]. It is established that seimic events of magnitudes similar to that of the Bachat earthquake cannot be caused by the overall anthropogenic load on the area, and it is unlikely that such a strong earthquake may occur due to the direct effects of seismic vibrations resulting from mass explosions during the mining operations. Our analytical models and numerical simulations, as well as the analysis of seismological observation data show that the most probable factor that initiated dynamic movements in the earthquake source was the extraction of the huge rock volume and its transportation from the Bachat open-pit mine. It should be noted that the size of the zone, wherein the geomechanical initiation criteria are met, is considerably larger than the critical size of a nucleation zone for a M 6 earthquake. However, open-pit mining operations can hardly affect the localization of strong earthquake sources. Mining operations can only trigger a seismic event that has been already prepared by the natural evolution of the crust.
This paper presents a number of geotechnical issues encountered in earthquake design of offshore structures and subsea facilities. Parallel with construction of traditional structures such as jackets and gravity-based structures, a considerable effort has recently been put to field developments in deep water. This has brought about other challenges that are largely dependent on geotechnical knowledge. This paper addresses some of the more recent approaches and solutions in geotechnical earthquake design of both shallow water and deep-water structures and facilities such as platforms with large bases, pipelines traversing slopes and seabed installations. It is demonstrated how incorporation of radiation damping and nonlinear soil-structure interaction in offshore installations could optimize the design. Considering the importance of earthquake stability of slopes in deep water development, special attention is given to highlighting several key issues in the earthquake response of submarine slopes including strain softening and three-dimensional shaking.
Electromagnetic phenomena are sometimes associated with seismic events, but earthquake prediction using seismic electric signals (SES) has not been seriously considered since the early 1990s. There are several causes: (1) false alarms that have created panics in Greece, and (2) a strong critique of the Varotsos-Alexopoulos-Nomicos (VAN) method used there. An updated VAN method that includes time series analysis has made successful medium-range predictions, and short-range predictions when coupled with seismic time series analysis. Four types of potential mechanisms to create precursory SES relying on deformation effects, temperature effects, ore-mineral movement or groundwater variation are reviewed. Data relevant to each are insufficient to favor a single mechanism. Records of the number of false positive and missed events for an updated VAN method have not been well maintained. False positives appear to be abundant and render the method unusable. Co-seismic groundwater fluctuations are addressed, and two novel hypotheses of earthquake trigger mechanism are also presented: ionospherically induced electric (and resultant magnetic) fields to weaken rock thereby causing failure; and volatiles liberated from minerals additionally promoting rock failure. Recommendations for further study are included.
Determining conditions for earthquake slip on faults is a key goal of fault mechanics highly relevant to seismic hazard. Previous studies have demonstrated that enhanced dynamic weakening (EDW) can lead to dynamic rupture of faults with much lower shear stress than required for rupture nucleation. We study the stress conditions before earthquake ruptures of different sizes that spontaneously evolve in numerical simulations of earthquake sequences on rate-and-state faults with EDW due to thermal pressurization of pore fluids. We find that average shear stress right before dynamic rupture (aka shear prestress) systematically varies with the rupture size. The smallest ruptures have prestress comparable to the local shear stress required for nucleation. Larger ruptures weaken the fault more, propagate over increasingly under-stressed areas due to dynamic stress concentration, and result in progressively lower average prestress over the entire rupture. The effect is more significant in fault models with more efficient EDW. We find that, as a result, fault models with more efficient weakening produce fewer small events and result in systematically lower b-values of the frequency-magnitude event distributions. The findings (a) illustrate that large earthquakes can occur on faults that appear not to be critically stressed compared to stresses required for slip nucleation; (b) highlight the importance of finite-fault modeling in relating the local friction behavior determined in the lab to the field scale; and (c) suggest that paucity of small events or seismic quiescence may be the observational indication of mature faults that operate under low shear stress due to EDW.
Long-period earthquakes and tremors, on a par with volcano-tectonic earthquakes, are one of two main classes of volcano-seismic activity. It is believed that long-period volcanic seismicity is associated with pressure fluctuations in the magmatic and hydrothermal systems beneath volcanoes and can therefore be used as a precursor of the impending eruptions. At the same time, the physical mechanism of the long-period seismicity is still not fully understood. In this work, we have studied the long-period earthquakes that occur at the crust-mantle boundary beneath the Klyuchevskoi volcanic group in Kamchatka in order to establish their recurrence law-the relationship between the magnitude and frequency of occurrence of the events. In the region under study, the earthquakes pertaining to this type are most numerous and characterize the state of the deep magma reservoir located at the crust-mantle boundary. The changes in the seismic regime in this part of the magmatic system can be one of the early precursors of eruptions. For a more thorough characterization of the frequency-magnitude relationship of the discussed events, we compiled a new catalog of the deep long-period earthquakes based on the matched-filter processing of continuous seismograms recorded by the network stations of the Kamchatka Branch of the Geophysical Survey of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2011-2012. For these earthquakes, we also used a magnitude determination method that provides the estimates close to the moment magnitude scale. The analysis of the obtained catalog containing more than 40 000 events shows that the frequency-magnitude relationships of the earthquakes markedly deviate from the Gutenberg-Richter power-law distribution, probably testifying to the seismicity mechanism and peculiarities of the sources that differ from the common tectonic earthquakes. It is shown that the magnitude distribution of the deep long-period earthquakes is, rather, described by the distributions with characteristic mean values such as the normal or gamma distribution.
In this paper, the Lushan fault geometry and the fault slip distribution are inverted using co-seismic GPS data of the 2013 Lushan M(s)( )7. 0 Earthquake. The results show that the Lushan fault is steep in south and upper and gentle in north and lower. Its low-dip portion is located in the northern section of the Lushan earthquake fault and close to the and the side near the Yingxiu fault. The maximum slip of the sliding distribution model is 0. 82 m at depth 13. 67 km close to the average depth 12. 5 km of small events. We select the crustal deformation field data of the Longmenshan fault zone from 1998 to 2014 to calculate the deformation component along the direction of the fault strike by fitting. The 30 km seismic gap between the Wenchuan earthquake and the Lushan earthquake is defined as a boundary. In the Longmenshan fault zone, the direction of the deformation component of the southwestern segment is opposite to that of the northeastern segment. While in the Wenchuan earthquake fault, the direction of the deformation component is consistent with that of dextral strike-slip of the fault, whereas in the Lushan earthquake fault, the direction of the deformation component is consistent with that of the leftlateral strike-slip movement of the fault. The striking direction of the Lushan earthquake is opposite to that of the Wenchuan earthquake, because the former is extruded to the southeast by the Tibetan Plateau under the unique geometric structure, which is blocked by the wedge-shaped structure of the lithosphere in the middle section of the Longmenshan. In the seismic gap between the Wenchuan M(s)7.0 earthquake and the Lushan n7.0 earthquake, the tectonic movement diverges towards either side.
In this paper, we relocated the n6. 4 Yangbi earthquake sequence in Yunnan province by the multi-stage method and the phase arrival data from the Yunnan regional seismic network. The focal mechanism solutions of 13 M-s >> 4. 0 events were calculated by the CAP program. We found that the sequence is about 3 similar to 10 km away from the nearest known Weixi-Qiaohou fault, and the long-axis of the aftershock events is about 22 km striking NW-SE, with its dominant focal depth is 4 similar to 8 km, reflecting the Yangbi earthquake occurred in the shallow part of the upper Crust. Earthquakes along the northern segment of the aftershock area are relatively shallow and dense, while along the southern segment earthquakes are deeper and more dispersed and deflected to the south. Different short-axis cross-sections reveal that the seismogenic structure is dipping towards SW with a gentler angle for the SE segment and steeper angle for the NW segment. We identified two small-scale NE-striking conjugate faults (about 5 km long) in the northern part of the sequence. The foreshocks on May 18 propagated gradually from the center towards NW where the mainshock is located. Since the foreshock sequences were dense and triggered by each other, we thus concluded a cascade mode of the foreshock occurrence. The main shock was located in the NW end of the aftershock intensive area, which indicated that it had the characteristics of SE-trending unilateral rupture. The focal mechanism solutions of most M-s >> -4. 0 events have NW-SE striking steep nodal planes, consistent with the long axis of the aftershock distribution. The stress inversion results revealed that the seismogenic structure is affected by the NNW-SSE striking nearly horizontal principal compressive stress, which is consistent with the fault occurrence and dislocation type of the adjacent Weixi-Qiaohou fault. It can be preliminarily determined that the seismogenic structure is a parallel secondary structure of Weixi-Qiaohou fault. The formation of this structure may be related to the SE escape of the active Sichuan-Yunnan block and the clockwise rotation of Southwest Yunnan block.
It has recently been argued that the large mid-continental earthquakes near New Madrid, Missouri, were mostly forgotten soon after they occurred in 1811-1812, in large part because the records available (historical narratives) were qualitative and taken to be unreliable. This obscurity is supposed to have lasted until the 1970s or later, when scientific study of the earthquakes resumed, and their significance for hazard became recognized. An examination of a wider range of sources suggests that while the memory of these earthquakes may have suffered the natural fate of most historical events, and faded in the broader population, the professional community of seismologists and engineers never lost sight of these earthquakes. Increased research in the 1970s on seismic hazards in mid-continental North America happened because of new opportunities created by funding and new technology, not a sudden remembering. Nor were these earthquakes neglected because seismology turned from description using descriptive measures (intensity of shaking) to analysis using instrumental data: intensity data were collected and used throughout the twentieth century.
A theoretical framework and empirical evidence are presented to show the connection between community uniform rating and cross-subsidies in earthquake insurance policy in Japan. Cross-subsidies are defined as the difference between a fair actuarial premium and the community uniform rate. The estimation result shows that the uniform community rating may unintentionally cross-subsidize inhabitants in high-risk areas at the expense of inhabitants in low-risk areas. Our simulation results indicate that replacing the current community rating with the fair actuarial premium would increase the overall subscription rate for earthquake insurance by about 3.7 percentage points, and that the increase is particularly prominent in relatively less risky areas. We propose modifying the Japanese earthquake insurance system by adopting a more refined risk-rating system that more closely reflects regional differences in earthquake risk.
On August 5, 2018, Lombok Island, an island off the eastern part of Bali Island, Indonesia experienced a 6.9 magnitude earthquake. To provide a reliable measure to estimate the intensity of earthquake impact, this study observes land deformation after the event using Differential SAR (DinSAR) Interferometry algorithmthat is applied to Sentinel-1 satellite imageries. The semi-automatic classification method is developed to produce infrastructure-damage-level estimation map in the study area. For accuracy assessment, multi-sensor dataset of PlanetScope and Google Earth images, as well as data fromfield survey is utilised. The results reveal consistent locations of damaged area caused by the earthquake, both from the SAR and optical datasets. Accuracy of infrastructure damage classification is relatively low for small-sized destruction (<3m), which is due to the limited spatial resolution of the satellite imagery. Yet for largesized destruction, themethod provides high accuracy. In longer-term, the method to identify and classify infrastructure damage that is developed in this study can help to build a historical database of earthquake impact in a vulnerable area, and support the organization of a robust mitigation system.
The construction of nuclear power plants in China has proceeded rapidly in recent years, and a nuclear power plant cluster is present in the coastal area of Fujian Province. Considering the lessons of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant accident, we applied the Monte Carlo approach to calculate the correlation characteristics of earthquake impacts on the nuclear power plant cluster and to assess the seismic hazards at multiple sites. Based on the seismic source zone model, seismicity model and ground-motion prediction model of the Seismic Ground Motion Parameters Zonation Map of China, many earthquake scenarios were sampled, and the possibility of multiple sites experiencing ground motions that exceed critical values at the same time were obtained. The results show that the correlation between nuclear power plants Fuqing (C) and Putian (D) is the largest and that they have a slight probability of exceeding their respective design criteria at the same time. The correlation of earthquake impacts on nuclear power plants Ningde (A) and Xiapu (B) is also high, but the probability that they simultaneously exceed their respective design criteria is very low. This study can provide a reference for the site selection of nuclear power plants.
Earthquakes, as one of the most disruptive natural hazards, have been a major research target for generations of scientists. Numerical simulation of earthquakes, as one of the few methods to verify and improve scientists' understanding about the earthquake process, and a key tool in various earthquake engineering applications, has long been both an important and challenging application on supercomputers. In this paper, we discuss the major challenges for developing an accurate earthquake simulation tool on supercomputers. Based on the discussion, we then demonstrate our efforts on performing extreme-scale earthquake simulations on Sunway TaihuLight, a 125-Pflops machine with over 10 million heterogeneous cores. With systematic approaches to resolve the memory bandwidth constraint, we manage to achieve 8% to 16% efficiency for utilizing the entire machine to simulate Tangshan and Wenchuan Earthquakes with an unprecedented spatial resolution.
The question of the existence of foci of deep earthquakes in the region of the Crimea-Black Sea-Caucasus is extremely important from the point of view of the geodynamics of the region. Previously it was thought that only crustal earthquakes could occur in this region. Recently, results have been obtained that show that earthquakes with depths of at least 300 km occur in this region. The article discusses the question of how plausible these results are and why they were not obtained earlier. Seven specific examples of the ambiguous determination of the depth of earthquake hypocenters in the Crimea-Black Sea-Caucasus region are considered. These examples clearly show that determining the coordinates of earthquake hypocenters using algorithms based on the Geiger method does not allow one to uniquely determine the depth of the hypocenters. The article gives an idea of the authors about the origin of mantle earthquakes in the Caucasian and Crimean-Black Sea regions. For the Caucasus region, mantle earthquakes are associated with two reasons: submersion of the lithospheric layer; in the asthenospheric layer, represented in the seismotomographic sections by a low-velocity anomaly, the nature of earthquake foci is associated with fluids formed during phase transition reactions. In the Crimean-Black Sea region, earthquake foci are located in the lithosphere layer, and the sliding of the lithosphere along the less viscous underlying layer of the upper mantle causes tectonic movements in the lithosphere accompanied by earthquakes. In addition, to determine the coordinates of the hypocenters of the Crimean and Caucasian earthquakes during routine processing, hodographs were used for depths not exceeding 35 km for the Crimea and 50 km for the Caucasus and 150 for the North Caucasus. This circumstance is the main reason why deep earthquakes could not be detected.
Recent earthquake events in New Zealand have highlighted the need to improve the post-earthquake reparability of buildings. This paper describes a number of avenues for improving the post-earthquake reparability of buildings and reviews a number of recent and ongoing efforts to improve post-earthquake reparability in New Zealand. Attention is given to the role that non-structural elements play in the reparability of buildings. The work explains how the design and detailing of non-structural elements can be enhanced to achieve improved reparability. To reduce the vulnerability of drift-sensitive non-structural elements, such as plasterboard partition walls, a number of alternative detailing strategies are under development. For acceleration-sensitive components such as ceilings and suspended piping, issues with the industry design, installation and inspection provisions are highlighted and ongoing research aimed at understanding system interaction effects is discussed. The last part of the paper proposes different ways of improving reparability during the conceptual design of a building. Various possibilities are identified, such as the definition of inspection and repair criteria and the relocation of non-structural elements away from structural locations to improve access to non-structural elements. It is concluded that by considering potential inspection and repair needs during concept design, considerable time and repair cost could be saved following intense earthquake shaking, with considerable socio-economic benefits for the community.
Due to tectonic - seismic - topographic structure, Turkey which is among the most affected countries in global scale of the earthquakes, the role of architects associated with disaster / earthquake phenomenon is important in terms of interdisciplinary relations, processes related to planning, the process of earthquake resistant building design, the process of earthquake resistant building construction and inspection, post-disaster recovery, reconstruction process. In this context, in this research, the professional responsibility area of the architect was evaluated with these criteria and the role of the architect in relation to the disaster management phases was questioned. The place and the importance of earthquake in the architectural education which is based on the foundations of the profession was evaluated as through comparative global agenda (USA, Japan, Turkey) by quantitative and qualitative dimensions. In addition to this general framework, the local context of the subject was questioned in terms of the educational dimension of the earthquake. The data was obtained through program, curriculum and course contents shared online and by reaching the institutions through correspondence in case where digital access is not possible. Turkey context, compared to the international agenda, was questioned by a slightly wider frame. A situation assessment has been made in terms of undergraduate programs, graduate programs and supportive learning environments. These data also provided the basis for the holistic assessment carried out in terms of education. The proposals developed have been classified in a very broad scope under different headings due to the multifaceted relations of the phenomenon of disaster / earthquake with architectural education and architectural professional practice. Thus, suggestions have been developed in various scopes including Regarding General Responsibility, Regarding Planning Decisions, Regarding Interdisciplinary Relations, Regarding Undergraduate Curriculum, Architectural Design Studio Courses,Regarding Supportive Learning Environments for architectural education. The results show that, in terms of architectural education practices (undergraduate / graduate / supportive learning environments) and the requirements of the mechanism which the training is based (structure design / production / inspection system and related legislation), the 1999 Marmara Earthquake directly triggered some developments in terms of learning from disasters, the educational dimension of earthquake in its early years, but this acceleration has not been permanent in the past 20-year period. In this context, the proposals are about the necessity of providing a multidimensional set of relationships in terms of issues such as an integrated system organization. In this context, in relation to disaster / earthquake phenomenon, together with the self-criticism provided on qualitative and quantitative determinations, it is thought that the research will contribute to the architectural education, architectural profession field and therefore the country's architectural practice and policy. The Marmara Sea (Silivri) earthquake (September 26, 2019) that occurred during the evaluation process of this article was felt in the entire Marmara Region. This earthquake, which took place in the 20th year of the 1999 Marmara Earthquake, is important in terms of social memory and reminding the disaster reality, as it was felt in a large, populated area. On the other hand, the Coronavirus Pandemic, which emerged in the evaluation process of this article and declared as a global epidemic by the World Health Organization, is within the scope of epidemiological disaster risks. Due to its global effects occurring simultaneously all over the world, Pandemic is an important milestone and breaking point in terms of being prepared for all kinds of disasters because of its vital - economic - sociological - psychological dimensions. It is thought that the pandemic is important in terms of re-questioning the period, which can be described as the Anthropocene Age, when the human being was at the center and nature was interpreted as an unlimited resource to meet human needs. This questioning may have the potential to alter - transform general trends all over the globe. It is possible that these changes will have an intense effect on architectural education and architectural professional practice. It is among the promising predictions that the young generation at the education stage, who faced the earthquake disaster -without painful consequences- through the Silivri Earthquake and experienced the effects of the pandemic -an epidemiological disaster- will have a more sensitive and conscious base for the ethical, global, social responsibilities of the architectural professional practice.
We show that a fixed smartphone network can provide robust Earthquake Early Warning for at least two orders of magnitude less cost than scientific-grade networks. Our software and cloud-based data architecture that we have constructed for the Alerta Sismica Temprana Utilizando Telefonos Inteligentes (ASTUTI; Earthquake Early Warning Utilizing Smartphones) network in Costa Rica is easily scaled and exported. Implementation comprises provisioning and installing modern smartphones in judicious locations. Stand-up time for regionally operational networks can be on the order of days. We evaluated a non-parametric ground-motion detection and alerting strategy that would alert the entire Costa Rican population of any event with a ground motion detection threshold of 0.55-0.65 %g at four neighboring stations. During a 6-month evaluation period ASTUTI detected and alerted on five of 13 earthquakes with M-w 4.8-5.3 that caused felt Modified Mercalli Intensity shaking levels of 4.3-6. The system did not produce any false alerts and the undetected events did not produce wide-spread or significant felt shaking. System latencies were less than or similar to scientific-grade latencies. Alerts for all five detected events would have reached the capital city, San Jose, before strong S-wave shaking. This would have afforded time for Drop Cover Hold On actions by most residents. Two of the five alerts were triggered by P-waves suggesting that smartphone-based networks could approach the fastest theoretical EEW performance, especially with future expected improvements in smartphone sensors and processing algorithms.
The basic goal of earthquake resistant building design codes is to provide life safety in the event of extreme earthquake loading and to reduce the seismic risk in the long run. In the most building codes including Iranian building code (Standard No. 2800), design basis earthquake is defined as an earthquake with 10% probability of exceedance (PE) in 50years. Such an approach leads to buildings with unknown reliability, meaning that the probability of exceedance from the specified limit states in the service lifetime is not known. Furthermore, the regions with the same mapped peak ground acceleration (PGA(DBE)) and different hazard curves, may have different seismic risks. Therefore, life safety is not uniformly provided across the entire region. Here, an attempt is made to estimate PGA(DBE)s based on the uniform collapse risk approach for Tehran megacity. The building capacity and PGA hazard curve for 354 grids in Tehran are computed. Then, the risk-adjusted design PGA at different grid points are calculated by optimizing risk integral using the acceptance criteria of 1% in 50years for ordinary usage buildings (risk category II). The computed risk-adjusted design PGAs vary from 0.33g in the east to about 0.45g toward west, south, and north. Meanwhile, the proposed mapped PGA(DBE) in standard 2800 is a constant value of 0.35g for the whole region. To preserve a uniform collapse risk, risk-adjustment factors to modify the mapped PGA(DBE) are introduced. Furthermore, the maximum considered earthquake (MCE) required to evaluate the acceptance criteria is found to be in the range of 1.5% to 2.5% PE in 50years. The PGAs with 2% PE in 50years provide nearly uniform acceptable probability of collapse for buildings classified in risk category II. In addition, it is found that the buildings' seismic importance factor (I) also needs to be revised from 1.2 to 1.3 for seismic risk category III, and from 1.4 to 1.6 for seismic risk category IV to preserve the 0.5% and 0.25% collapse risk in 50years, respectively. The outcomes also revealed that the sensitivity analysis with regard to the uncertainty of buildings' collapse fragility curve can be ignored for buildings in risk categories I and II, while it needs to be performed for buildings in risk categories III, and especially IV. Finally, the estimated PGA hazard curves of the Tehran megacity are approximated by the cubic functions to expedite the future risk assessment studies in Tehran megacity.
The response of atmospheric pressure to the Tohoku earthquake on February 11, 2011 (magnitude M similar to 9), is analyzed using the results of instrumental observations made at the Mikhnevo Geophysical Observatory, Institute of Geosphere Dynamics, Russian Academy of Sciences (IDG RAS). It is shown that the earthquake gave rise to atmospheric pressure fluctuations with periods as long as 8.5, 9.4, 10, and 10.4 h. Waves in an isothermal atmosphere with a source at the earthquake epicenter are considered as a possible cause of excitation of these basic variations.
A large magnitude 7.8 earthquakes occurred in Ecuador at 23: 58: 36 Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) on April 16, 2016. In this paper, we revisit this earthquake by simultaneously analyzing the magnetic field data of Swarm satellite A and satellite C based on principal component analysis (PCA), and the eigenvalues and principal components are calculated throughout 2016. We find that the first principal component mainly contains the signal originating from solar-terrestrial effects such as geomagnetic activity since the first eigenvalue and the geomagnetic index are highly correlated. Therefore, the second principal component is used to extract the anomalies associated with the Ecuador earthquake in terms of skewness and kurtosis. The anomalous tracks of the S-K (Skewness-Kurtosis) coefficient are accumulated from 90 days before the event to 30 days after. The cumulative number follows an accelerating power-law behavior before the earthquake and decelerating recovery behavior after the earthquake; moreover, the inflection point of the sigmoidal fitting curve is close to the time of the earthquake. The cumulative number of anomalous tracks in the random regions shows a linear increase, further verifying the correlation between anomalies extracted and the Ecuador earthquake. This phenomenon could be related to the preparation phase and the aftershock phase of the Ecuador earthquake.
To better quantify how injection, prior seismicity, and fault properties control rupture growth and propagation of induced earthquakes, we perform a finite-fault slip inversion on a M-w 4.0 earthquake that occurred in April 2015, the largest earthquake in an induced sequence near Guthrie, Oklahoma. The slip inversion reveals a rupture with slip patches that are anti-correlated to the locations of prior seismicity. The prior seismicity driven by low pore pressure changes and static stress changes occurred on weaker portions of the fault, while the M-w 4.0 earthquake likely ruptured relatively stronger portions of the fault. To resolve if pore pressure changes or the initial underlying stress distribution and fault strength controlled the final slip distribution of the Guthrie M-w 4.0 earthquake, we compare strike-slip events of similar magnitude from tectonically active regions and previously inactive regions. Earthquakes on reactivated faults exhibit different slip distributions than active regions, they have more prominent and well separated slip patches, a behavior often associated with faults of lower fault maturity. Pore pressure shows little effect on the distributions. These observations suggest that the initial underlying stress distribution and fault strength of reactivated faults in low deformation regions is the primary controlling factor of the slip distribution with pore pressure perturbations and earthquake interactions being secondary. Therefore, Guthrie M-w 4.0 earthquakes slip distribution was enhanced by pore-pressure perturbations and earthquake interactions by creating an optimal stress state for its failure, but the slip distribution itself is controlled by its fault's initial stress and strength state.
Today, earthquake precursors remain debated. While precursory slow slip is an important feature of earthquake nucleation, foreshock sequences are not always observed, and their temporal evolution remains poorly constrained. We report on laboratory earthquakes conducted under upper-crustal stress and fluid pressure conditions. The dynamics of precursors (slip, seismicity, and fault coupling) prior to the mainshock are dramatically affected by slight changes in fault conditions (fluid pressure and slip history). A relationship between precursory moment release and mainshock magnitude is systematically observed, independent of fault conditions. Based on nucleation theory, we derive a semiempirical scaling relationship which explains this trend for laboratory earthquakes. Several natural observations of earthquakes ranging from similar to M-w 6.0-9.0, where precursory moment release could be estimated, seem to follow the extrapolation of the laboratory-derived scaling law. Notwithstanding spatiotemporal complexity in natural seismicity, some moderate to large earthquake magnitudes might be estimated through integrated seismological and geodetic measurements of both seismic and aseismic slips during nucleation. Plain Language Summary Understanding the preparation phase that precedes earthquake ruptures (nucleation) is crucial for seismic hazard assessment because it might provide information on the impending earthquake. Here, we show that the temporal evolution of laboratory earthquake precursors (precursory slow slip, precursory seismicity, and fault coupling) is of little use in assessing an impending earthquake's size. Nevertheless, independent of fault slip behavior (seismic or aseismic) and environmental conditions (stress state and fluid pressure and slip history), the amount of moment released during the preparation phase scales with the earthquake's magnitude. This property is demonstrated by laboratory observations and earthquake nucleation theory and seems compatible with several natural observations of earthquakes ranging from M-w 6.0 to M-w 9.0. As a consequence, if earthquakes exhibit a preparation phase, it could be possible that this phase is larger or longer for higher magnitude earthquakes and consequently, more likely to be detectable.
Ring foundations are commonly adopted to support tall and heavy cylindrical structures such as silos, chimneys, cooling towers, circular storage tanks, and windmills. The construction of these structures in the earthquake-prone region poses a high risk due to the limited knowledge about their behavior under the earthquake loading when supported on a ring type of foundation. The present study focuses on analyzing the response of ring foundations resting on cohesionless soil during the event of an earthquake. A three-dimensional finite element numerical analysis was carried out to study the behavior of the ring foundation-silo system during the event of an earthquake. The variation in ring geometry such that the ratio of inner to the outer radius (R-i/R-o) was 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, and 0.8, soil densification (gamma) under loose and dense condition, the height of silo (h) of 15 m (squat silo) and 25 m (slender silo) and the different earthquake loadings were considered to study their effect on peak acceleration and horizontal displacement of ring foundation. The input motions from 1979 El Centro, 2001 Bhuj, and 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake were considered for the dynamic analysis. The results indicated a decrease in the horizontal displacement of the ring foundation with an increase in height of the structure and soil densification. The foundation displacement was irrespective of the ring geometry for squat silo but showed variation with ring geometry for slender silo. The peak acceleration at the base of the ring foundation was observed to be increased with a rise in height of the structure and soil densification.
We carry out an integrated study on coseismic and post-seismic deformation caused by 2010 Yushu earthquake sequence, including both mainshock and aftershocks, by using multi-scene ENVISAT/ ASAR data on two adjacent tracks. We map the extended deformation region to the west of mainshock and show the westward extension of seismogenic fault of mainshock. Based on our whole deformation field derived from mosaic interferograms, the total length of seismogenic fault reaches similar to 103km longer than similar to 71km suggested by the previous report. Several coseismic interferograms with different time baselines have similar deformation patterns, which indicate that the influence of aftershocks and post-seismic slip on coseismic deformation field is limited. Also, we observe a clear and separate deformation area, similar to 38km to the west of the mainshock epicentre, with maximum displacement of similar to 9 cm. The localised deformation is composed of two patches with opposite motion directions, where an aftershock cluster with at least 47 events (> Ms 3.0) occurred. We infer that this localised deformation is caused by aftershocks ruptured on a blind active fault. While a weak post-seismic deformation band along main rupture zone near mainshock epicentre is likely attributable to short-term afterslip.
In this study, we improved and adapted existing signal processing methods on vast geomagnetic field data to investigate the correlations between various earthquake properties and characteristics of possible geomagnetic precursors. The data from 10 magnetometer stations were utilized to detect precursory ultra-low frequency emission and estimate the source direction for 34 earthquakes occurring between the year 2007-2016 in Southeast Asia, East Asia, and South America regions. As a result, possible precursors of 20 earthquakes were identified (58.82% detection rate). Weak correlations were obtained when all precursors were considered. However, statistically significant and strong linear correlations (r >= 0.60, p < 0.05) were found when the precursors from two closely located stations in Japan (Onagawa (ONW) and Tohno (TNO)) were exclusively investigated. For these stations, it was found that the lead time of the precursor is strongly (or very strongly) correlated with the earthquake magnitude, the local seismicity index, and the hypocentral depth. In addition, the error percentage of the estimated direction showed a strong correlation with the hypocentral depth. It is concluded that, when the study area is restricted to a specific location, the earthquake properties are more likely to have correlations with several characteristics of the possible precursors.
The key kinematic earthquake source parameters: rupture velocity, duration and area, shed light on earthquake dynamics, provide direct constraints on stress drop, and have implications for seismic hazard. However, for moderate and small earthquakes, these parameters are usually poorly constrained due to limitations of the standard analysis methods. Numerical experiments by Kaneko and Shearer demonstrated that standard spectral fitting techniques can lead to roughly one order of magnitude variation in stress-drop estimates that do not reflect the actual rupture properties even for simple crack models. We utilize these models to explore an alternative approach where we estimate the rupture area directly. For the suite of models, the area averaged static stress drop is nearly constant for models with the same underlying friction law, yet corner-frequency-based stress-drop estimates vary by a factor of 5-10 even for noise-free data. Alternatively, we simulated inversions for the rupture area as parametrized by the second moments of the slip distribution. A natural estimate for the rupture area derived from the second moments is A = pi LcWc, where L-c and W-c are the characteristic rupture length and width. This definition yields estimates of stress drop that vary by only 10 per cent between the models but are slightly larger than the true area averaged values. We simulate inversions for the second moments for the various models and find that the area can be estimated well when there are at least 15 available measurements of apparent duration at a variety of take-off angles. The improvement compared to azimuthally averaged corner-frequency-based approaches results from the second moments accounting for directivity and removing the assumption of a circular rupture area, both of which bias the standard approach. We also develop a new method that determines the minimum and maximum values of rupture area that are consistent with a particular data set at the 95 per cent confidence level. For the Kaneko and Shearer models with 20+ randomly distributed observations and similar to 10 per cent noise levels, we find that the maximum and minimum bounds on rupture area typically vary by a factor of two and that the minimum stress drop is often more tightly constrained than the maximum.
To estimate the hazard posed by active faults, estimates of the maximum magnitude earthquake that could occur on the fault are needed. I compare previously published scaling relationships between earthquake magnitude and rupture length with data from recent earthquakes in Indonesia. I compile a total amount of 13 literatures on investigating coseismic deformation in Indonesia, which then divided into strike-slip and dip-slip earthquake cases. I demonstrate that a different scaling relationship generates different misfit compared to data. For a practical practice of making seismic hazard model in Indonesia, this research shows the suggested reference for a scaling relationship of strike-slip and dip-slip faulting regime. On a practical approach in constructing a logic tree for seismic hazard model, using different weighting between each published earthquake scaling relationship is recommended.
Changes of permeability caused by dynamic stress induced by distant earthquakes have been widely reported. Permeability decreases before local earthquakes have been less commonly reported. In this study, we document pre-earthquake aquifer permeability decreases in a well named X11 in northwest China. The response of the water level to barometric pressure and Earth tides was used to calculate relative changes in permeability between July 2014 and February 2020. The results revealed that there was a decrease in the permeability of the aquifer prior to four local earthquakes between 2015 and 2020. We infer that crack clogging caused by particle deposition causes the permeability decreases before earthquakes.
Aims/Introduction On April 14 and 16 2016, the Kumamoto area was severely damaged by several massive magnitude 7 class earthquakes. Materials and Methods To examine the effects of these earthquakes on glycemic control and stress factors, glycated hemoglobin, glycated albumin, other biochemical parameters, a self-administered lifestyle-associated questionnaire and disaster-associated stress scores were analyzed. A total of 557 patients with diabetes were enrolled, and data were collected at 13 months before to 13 months after the earthquakes. Results In patients with type 1 diabetes and specific types of diabetes due to other causes, glycemic control was not altered during the observational period. This glycemic stability in type 1 diabetes might result from self-management of insulin doses. In patients with type 2 diabetes, glycated hemoglobin decreased by 0.11% (from 7.33 to 7.22%) at 1-2 months after the earthquakes, and increased thereafter. The reduction of glycated hemoglobin after 1-2 months in type 2 diabetes was associated with 'early restoration of lifelines' and 'sufficient sleep.' The glycemic deterioration at a later stage was related to 'shortage of antidiabetic agents,' 'insufficient amount of food,' 'largely destroyed houses' and 'changes in working environments.' Disaster-associated stress levels were positively correlated with 'age,' 'delayed restoration of lifelines,' 'self-management of antidiabetic agents' and 'increased amount of physical activity/exercise,' and negatively associated with 'early restoration of lifelines' and 'sufficient sleep.' Conclusions Glycemic control, associated factors and stress levels are altered in chronological order. Post-disaster diabetic medical care must consider these corresponding points in accordance with the time-period.
Earthquake catalogs are important data for earthquake monitoring and prediction, seismicity studies and other seismological studies. It is of great significance to analyze the minimum magnitude of completeness (M-C) for earthquake catalogs. China Seismic Experimental Site (CSES) has accumulated a large number of earthquakes in recent decades, which provides valuable data for the seismological studies in it. It is well known that the density of seismic networks and the accuracy of instrument is gradually increasing, so the minimum magnitude of completeness for the earthquake catalogs varies over time. Therefore, the analysis of the minimum magnitude of completeness for earthquake catalogs of the modern instrumental is of great significance for the current study and understanding of the law of seismicity and the influence factors in CSES. In this paper, the Magnitude-Sequence-Number method, the MAXC (Maximum Curvature) method, and the GET ( Goodness -of-Fit Test) method are used to analyze the minimum magnitude of completeness for the 1970 2018 earthquake catalog in CSES. The spatial distribution feature and the temporal variation feature of M-C in the whole CSES and each seismic zone within it are obtained. The results show that the change of M-C in CSES and the seismic zones within it is roughly M(L)2. 0 similar to 2. 6 from 1970 to 1986, M(L)2. 5 similar to 2. 6 from 1987 to 1999, M(L)1. 42 similar to 1 from 2000 to 2008 and M(L)1. 2 similar to 1. 9 from 2009 to 2018. The spatial distribution feature of Mc in CSES is roughly lower in the northeast and southwest, and higher in the northwest and southeast. The Mc is generally higher in Lancang-Gengma zone at the southern end of Yunnan, Litang-Muli zone at the northwestern of Sichuan and Jinshajiang zone at the junction of Sichuan and Tibet. The Mc is generally lower in Songpan-Longmenshan zone, Anninghe zone, Yuanmou zone, Chuxiong-Jianshui zone and Dali-Lijiang-Yanyuan zone, which are in the northern Yunnan and southern Sichuan. A strong earthquake would cause that Mc suddenly increases and then gradually recovers. And the amount of the increasement of Mc has a certain correlation with the magnitude of the strong earthquake. The increasement of Mc caused by strong earthquakes is one of the reasons for the inhomogeneous spatial and temporal distribution of Mc.
The vast majority of total and partial bridge collapses in Mexico are due to scour damage. Bridges are not repaired promptly after a hurricane so the bridge is exposed to both, scour and earthquake hazard. This paper presents the results of a research project oriented to study the vulnerability-based hazard risk assessment of highway bridges subjected to extreme rainfalls due to hurricane events and its effect on bridge lateral strength. Scour hazard is computed using robust statistical procedures to minimise the intrinsic uncertainty of the extreme rainfalls. Earthquake hazard is computed accordingly to Mexican codes and well-known methodologies. A case study is used to present the methodology used in the research project, which was funded by the National Center for Disaster Prevention CENAPRED through the Institute of Engineering of the National Autonomous University of Mexico.
In this paper, a deep learning-based method for earthquake prediction is proposed. Large-magnitude earthquakes and tsunamis triggered by earthquakes can kill thousands of people and cause millions of dollars worth of economic losses. The accurate prediction of large-magnitude earthquakes is a worldwide problem. In recent years, deep learning technology that can automatically extract features from mass data has been applied in image recognition, natural language processing, object recognition, etc., with great success. We explore to apply deep learning technology to earthquake prediction. We propose a deep learning method for continuous earthquake prediction using historical seismic events. First, we project the historical seismic events onto a topographic map. Taking Taiwan as an example, we generate the images of the dataset for deep learning and mark a label 1 or 0, depending on whether in the upcoming 30 days a greater than M6 earthquake will occur. Second, we train our deep leaning network model, using the images of the dataset. Finally, we make earthquake predictions, using the trained network model. The result shows that we can get the best result, when we predict earthquakes in the upcoming 30 days using data from the past 120 days. Here, we use R score as the performance metrics. The best R score is 0.303. Although the R score is not high enough, using the past 120 days' historic seismic event to predict the upcoming 30 days' biggest earthquake magnitude can be seen as the pattern of Taiwan earthquake because the R score is rather good compared to other datasets. The proposed method performs well without manually designing feature vectors, as in the traditional neural network method. This method can be applied to earthquake prediction in other seismic zones.
Automatic earthquake detection is widely studied to replace manual detection, however, most of the existing methods are sensitive to seismic noise. Hence, the need for Machine and Deep Learning has become more and more significant. Regardless of successful applications of the Fully Convolutional Networks (FCN) in many different fields, to the best of our knowledge, they are not yet applied in earthquake detection. In this paper, we propose an automatic earthquake detection model based on FCN classifier. We used a balanced subset of STanford EArthquake Dataset (STEAD) to train and validate our classifier. Each sample from the subset is re-sampled from 100Hz to 50Hz then normalized. We investigated different, widely used, feature normalization methods, which consist of normalizing all features in the same range, and we showed that feature normalization is not suitable for our data. On the contrary, sample normalization, which consists of normalizing each sample of our dataset individually, improved the accuracy of our classifier by similar to 16% compared to using raw data. Our classifier exceeded 99% on training data, compared to similar to 83% when using raw data. To test the efficiency of our classifier, we applied it to real continuous seismic data from XB Network from Morocco and compared the results to our catalog containing 77 earthquakes. Our results show that we could detect 75 out of 77 earthquakes contained in the catalog.
The paper considers the results of an archeoseismological approach to studying the seismic history of Crimea based on recent publications, devoted to reconstructing strong seismic events in the 15th-18th centuries. The reliability of the references involved is analyzed. Reconstruction of the timeline of earthquakes in Crimea is related to two problems: determination of doubtless evidence of a strong earthquake and dating of such an event. The first problem can be solved mostly by careful field studies using the developed technique and with representative historical, literary, and folkloric material, whereas dating of events encounters considerable difficulties. The main difficulties and limitations of this generally progressive research field are shown, which are related to both objective and subjective factors. Objective factors include, in particular, large uncertainty in establishing the chronology of seismic events using not only folkloric, but also historical data. The efficient cooperation of historians and seismologists is complicated by many unresolved issues in the reconstruction of historic events in Crimea, which deprives seismologists of a reliable basis and forces historians to rely on seismological conclusions that are not always valid. Subjective factors are related to lack of scrutiny when using sources and hasty conclusions. In addition, data on geological and man-made destruction in historical sources are used insufficiently. Despite doubts on the reliability of chronologically dating earthquakes, successful application of the archeoseismological method in Crimea is confirmed by solid evidence of strong seismicity. Obviously, to solve the dating reliability problem, further research and more complete reconstruction of Crimea's history are needed.
Automated early preventive measures are necessary to reduce secondary hazards in case of high-intensity earthquakes, as these have the potential to damage civil structures over a larger distance from the epicentre. The warning in case of a low-intensity earthquake can, however, disrupt human life and cause unnecessary losses. Hence, in this article, a Multilayer Perceptron-classifier is modeled to provide ensuing severity-based warning by predicting the possibility of the onsite intensity exceeding a pre-trained Peak Ground Acceleration threshold related to damaging intensities in the MMI scale. The supervised learning of the classifier utilized seismic features extracted from the strong-motion signal after the onset of the p-wave. A stratified differential feature-window resampling is applied, which enhanced the F-score of intensity class prediction from 79% to 91%. The trained model is realized on a Faster Than Real-Time (FTRT) simulation environment and tested with sliding windows for estimation of earthquake intensity classes for early warning, predicting with 89% accuracy. A seismic dataset consisting of around eight thousand non-earthquake seismic events from the National Capital Region, India, is generated using a fleet of developed seismic sensing nodes (SSNs) over a period of four years. The cross-dataset validation on this generated dataset showed 95.98% accuracy. A novel Factor of Early Warning (FoEW) metric is introduced to measure the effectiveness of warning by normalizing the achieved lead time with the corresponding maximum warning time. Mean FoEW exceeded 85% for the earthquakes with moderate to heavy damage potentials, i.e., MMI >= VI, suitable for onsite earthquake early warning.
We study numerically the effects of fault roughness on the nucleation process during earthquake sequences. The faults are governed by a rate and state friction law. The roughness introduces local barriers that complicate the nucleation process and result in asymmetric expansion of the rupture, nonmonotonic increase in the slip rates on the fault, and the generation of multiple slip pulses. These complexities are reflected as irregular fluctuations in the moment rate. There is a large difference between first slip events in the sequences and later events. In the first events, for roughness amplitude b(r)0.002, there is a large increase in the nucleation length with increasing b(r). For larger values of b(r), slip is mostly aseismic. For the later events there is a trade-off between the effects of the finite fault length and the fault roughness. For b(r)0.002, the finite length is a more dominant factor and the nucleation length barely changes with b(r). For larger values of b(r), the roughness plays a larger role and the nucleation length increases significantly with b(r). Using an energy balance approach, where the roughness is accounted for in the fault stiffness, we derive an approximate solution for the nucleation length on rough faults. The solution agrees well with the main trends observed in the simulations for the later events and provides an estimate of the frictional and roughness properties under which faults experience a transition between seismic and aseismic slip.
We calculate source parameters for fluid-injection induced earthquakes near Guthrie, Oklahoma, guided by synthetic tests to quantify uncertainties. The average stress drop during an earthquake is a parameter fundamental to ground motion prediction and earthquake source physics, but it has proved hard to measure accurately. This has limited our understanding of earthquake rupture, as well as the spatio-temporal variations of fault strength. We use synthetic tests based on a joint spectral-fitting method to define the resolution limit of the corner frequency as a function of the maximum frequency of usable signal, for both individual spectra and the average from multiple stations. Synthetic tests based on stacking analysis find that an improved stacking approach can recover the true input stress drop if the corner frequencies are within the resolution limit defined by joint spectral-fitting. We apply the improved approach to the Guthrie sequence, using different wave types and signal-to-noise criteria to understand the stability of the calculated stress drop values. The results suggest no systematic scaling relationship of stress drop for M <= 3.1 earthquakes, but larger events (M >= 3.5) tend to have higher average stress drops. Some robust spatio-temporal variations can be linked to the triggering processes and indicate possible stress heterogeneity within the fault zone. Tight clustering of low stress drop events at the beginning stage of the sequence suggests that pore pressure influences earthquake source processes. Events at shallow depth have lower stress drop compared to deeper events. The largest earthquake occurred within a cluster of high stress drop events, likely rupturing a strong asperity.
One of the most complex and devastating disaster scenarios that the U.S. Pacific Northwest region and the state of Oregon faces is a large magnitude Cascadia Subduction Zone earthquake event. The region's electrical grid lacks in resilience against the destruction of a megathrust earthquake, a powerful tsunami, hundreds of aftershocks and increased volcanic activity, all of which are highly probable components of this hazard. This research seeks to catalyze further understanding and improvement of resilience. By systematizing power system related experiences of historical earthquakes, and collecting practical and innovative ideas from other regions on how to enhance network design, construction, and operation, important steps are being taken toward a more resilient, earthquake-resistant grid. This paper presents relevant findings in an effort to be an overview and a useful guideline for those who are also working towards greater electrical grid resilience.
In the past few years, space-geodesy has measured continued postseismic deformation in the region of the 2015 Gorkha Mw 7.8 earthquake. Previous studies have suggested that the postseismic deformation is dominated by afterslip, but the spatiotemporal evolution of the afterslip, hence its cause and impact on regional seismicity are disputed, and contribution from other postseismic processes has not been well constrained. Here, we constructed an afterslip model using InSAR and GPS observations over three years after the Gorkha earthquake. First, the Sentinel-1A satellite data were processed using Permanent Scatterer Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar method to extract deformational signals at high-coherence points, and a fitting method was used to extract the postseismic displacement sequences. We then used InSAR and GPS data in a joint inversion for the evolution of afterslip, and compared its contribution to the observed postseismic displacement to that of viscoelastic relaxation and poroelastic rebound. Our results confirm that afterslip has dominated the observed postseismic deformation in the Gorkha region. Within 3 years of the Gorkha earthquake, afterslip released similar to 1.20 x 10(20) N m, about 14% of that released by the mainshock and the largest aftershock, or equivalent to an Mw 7.32 earthquake. The afterslip has occurred mostly downdip of the coseismic slip zone, in the ductile shear zone, apparently controlled by rheological properties. The updip shallow portion of the Main Frontal Thrust (MFT) zone has not been ruptured by coseismic slip or unlocked by afterslip, thus could potentially produce future earthquakes.
A Mw 7.4 earthquake hit Donggala County, Central Sulawesi Province, Indonesia, on 28 September 2018, triggering a tsunami and liquefaction in Palu City and Donggala. Around 2101 fatalities ensued and 68,451 houses were damaged by the earthquake. In light of this devastating event, a post-earthquake map is required to establish the first step in the evacuation and mitigation plan. In this study, remote sensing imagery from the Landsat-8 and Sentinel-2 satellites was used. Pre- and post-earthquake satellite images were classified using artificial neural network (ANN) and support vector machine (SVM) classifiers and processed using a decorrelation method to generate the post-earthquake damage map. The affected areas were compared to the field data, the percentage conformity between the ANN and SVM results was analyzed, and four post-earthquake damage maps were generated. Based on the conformity analysis, the Landsat-8 imagery (85.83%) was superior to that of Sentinel-2 (63.88%). The resulting post-earthquake damage map can be used to assess the distribution of seismic damage following the Palu earthquake and may be used to mitigate damage in the event of future earthquakes.
Large earthquake-triggered landslides near a seismogenic fault are usually closely linked to fault slipping. Therefore, it is important to research the relationship between the landslide movement and the deformation pattern of faults to better understand the location and influencing factors related to the large landslides. A large landslide, on the right bank of the Clarence River, New Zealand, was reactivated during the 2016 Mw7.8 Kaikoura earthquake. The landslide is located in close proximity to the Papatea Fault which ruptured during the earthquake. The special tectonic location of this landslide provided favorable conditions to research the failure mechanism of earthquake-triggered landslides. Field investigation and remote-sensing images revealed that the co-seismic surface rupture zone of the Papatea Fault is relatively complicated and characterized by a wide deformation zone with a width of similar to 80-170m. The northern section showed as left-lateral strike-slip and thrust-slip, with a vertical displacement of up to 4-6m. However, it exhibited thrust motion in the Clarence landslide area. The Clarence landslide was a reactivation of a pre-existing landslide. The thrust faulting of the Papatea Fault produced a wide deformation and fractured zone near the top of the landslide mass, and resulted in over-steepened topography in the landslide area. It should be noted that long-team seismic shaking, especially the main frequency of the seismic acceleration and rapid co-seismic vertical slip of the fault, played the principal role in further accelerating topographic instability during the earthquake. The landslide body thus started to slide along a pre-existing sliding surface under these actions. Our results indicate that the deformation pattern of the seismogenic fault could also play an important role in the occurrence of earthquake-triggered landslides, in addition to geological and geomorphological conditions and local seismic acceleration.
The method for constructing the generalized vicinity of a large earthquake as put forward and implemented in (Rodkin, 2008, 2012, 2020; Rodkin and Tikhonov, 2016) was previously used for analysis of world earthquake catalogs only. The use of this method for the analysis of regional catalogs presupposes a lower magnitude threshold for classification of large events and incorporation of regional seismicity peculiarities. We constructed the generalized vicinity from regional data for the Kuril Islands and Kamchatka. The same seismicity features have been identified as those for the generalized vicinity based on worldwide data; in particular, we identified the effect of earthquake hypocenters getting shallower in the near vicinity of a large earthquake. However, the regional data revealed the unexpected effect of a temporary clustering of large earthquakes, including those cases where they were far from each other. The volumes of higher activity involve considerable parts of the subduction zone far from each other both along the trench and over depth. We have estimated characteristic parameters of these clusters and the fraction of statistically dependent and independent large events. The mutual influence of seismicity at different depths has been discussed.
Stress may induce apparent resistivity changes. Clarifying the deformation process of the source media is critical for determining the correlations between resistivity variations and earthquake occurrence. In this study, the stress state of a medium was analyzed by integrating GPS measurements, the spatiotemporal evolution of the load/unload response ratio (LURR), geochemical monitoring, and synchronous apparent resistivity changes preceding the 2020 Mw 6.0 Jiashi earthquake. The medium hosting the Kalpin Observatory underwent elastic deformation before 2019, and the synchronous decreases in the E-W and N-S apparent resistivities from 2015 can be attributed to N-S-dominated compressive stress. The microdamage stage occurred in 2019, with subsequent E-W apparent resistivity variation amplitudes that were similar to 0.4 Omega m higher than those in previous years. This difference is a result of microdamage to the medium owing to tensile stress during the seismogenic process. The spatiotemporal evolution of the LURR and gas seepage monitoring data also indicate that the medium was damaged prior to the earthquake. Variations in the apparent resistivity measured at the Kalpin Observatory indicate that the medium underwent elastic deformation, followed by microdamage, until stress triggered the earthquake.
Located within a basin structure, at the conjunction of North East Anatolian, North Anatolian and Ovacik Faults, Erzincan city center (Turkey) is one of the most hazardous regions in the world. Combination of the seismotectonic and geological settings of the region has resulted in series of significant seismic activities including the 1939 (Ms similar to 7.8) as well as the 1992 (Mw = 6.6) earthquakes. The devastative 1939 earthquake occurred in the pre-instrumental era in the region with no available local seismograms. Thus, a limited number of studies exist on that earthquake. However, the 1992 event, despite the sparse local network at that time, has been studied extensively. This study aims to simulate the 1939 Erzincan earthquake using available regional seismic and geological parameters. Despite several uncertainties involved, such an effort to quantitatively model the 1939 earthquake is promising, given the historical reports of extensive damage and fatalities in the area. The results of this study are expressed in terms of anticipated acceleration time histories at certain locations, spatial distribution of selected ground motion parameters and felt intensity maps in the region. Simulated motions are first compared against empirical ground motion prediction equations derived with both local and global datasets. Next, anticipated intensity maps of the 1939 earthquake are obtained using local correlations between peak ground motion parameters and felt intensity values. Comparisons of the estimated intensity distributions with the corresponding observed intensities indicate a reasonable modeling of the 1939 earthquake.
A triplet of M-w similar to 6 earthquakes on 2017 December 1-12 occurred similar to 50 km north of Kerman, Iran, in an area of mountainous topography where several major right-lateral strike-slip fault systems-the Gowk, Nayband, Lakar Kuh and Kuh Banan faults-converge. Here we assess their source parameters and surficial expression using regional and teleseismic waveforms and arrival times, synthetic aperture radar interferometry, optical satellite image correlation and field observations. All three main shocks occurred on shallow reverse faults associated with the southern termination of the Lakar Kuh right-lateral strike-slip fault. The first two main shocks on 1 December and 12 December (08: 43 UTC) likely ruptured and reruptured a previously unrecognized, blind, NE-dipping fault beneath the Mian Kuh range. Slip in both earthquakes extends much further along strike than down dip, hinting at structural or stratigraphic controls on rupture dimensions. The thirdmain shock on 12 December (21: 41 UTC) is perhaps the most interesting of the three events. It ruptured a conjugate SW-dipping thrust in the hangingwall of the first fault, generating a sinuous fault scarp in the alluvial plain north of the Mian Kuh range, consistent with its unusually shallow centroid depth of similar to 2 km. Its high ratio of net surface slip (average similar to 1.5 m and maximum similar to 2.5 m) to length (similar to 7 km) and its narrow down-dip width (similar to 6 km) implies a very high stress drop. The surface rupture aligns along-strike with larger scarps that contain uplifted and incised fan surfaces in their hangingwalls, but this subtle expression of active faulting had not been fully recognized prior to these earthquakes. The clustering in space and time of large, shallow earthquakes on hidden faults is of broad concern for seismic hazard assessment in mountainous parts of Iran and in other collisional settings.
Post-earthquakes fires are high-consequence events, which may cause extensive damage once occurred. However, their nature has not been fully investigated as they are low-frequency events at the same time. A questionnaire survey was conducted for the fire services that corresponded to post-earthquake fires in their areas of jurisdiction in recent years, and outline data on fires following nine earthquakes was collected. A database containing information on 665 fires following 11 earthquakes in Japan from 1995 to 2017 was constructed by integrating survey data into an existing database of fires following the 1995 Kobe and 2011 Tohoku earthquakes. Through this database, the features of post-earthquake fires were comparatively analyzed from the viewpoint of types and causes of fire, ignition, fire spread in urban areas, firefighting activity, fatalities, and damage to fire safety equipment systems. The result shows that electrical is increasing in proportion in comparison with the earlier earthquakes among several causes of ignition; about 70% of all ignitions following major earthquakes occurred within a day from the shaking; and the average time required for fire engines to discharge water after ignition increased by 8-25 times in comparison with the ordinary cases. Quantitative correlations for the rate of ignition, r, cumulative relative frequency of ignition, f, and virtual travel speed of fire engines, vFF, that can be used for the risk assessment of post-earthquake fires were also developed. This comparative analysis provides a comprehensive perspective on the issues of post-earthquake fires that have formerly been analyzed fragmentally and construct a technical basis for the future studies.
Borehole strain monitoring has high sensitivity and is therefore widely used to study slow earthquakes, volcanic activity, earthquake precursors, and other nature phenomena. However, environmental factors seriously affect the identification of strain changes caused by crustal deformation. This paper proposes a method of anomaly detection based on variational mode decomposition (VMD) and principal component analysis (PCA). The borehole strain signal is decomposed into a number of modes simultaneously using VMD, and a new state-space model used to determine the number of the modes those are decomposed by the VMD algorithm. The influencing factors of each component are determined by spectrum analysis and comparative analysis. An example of the separation process of borehole strain data by the VMD method is presented. Then, we use PCA to calculate eigenvalues, which are used to detect anomalies associated with an earthquake, and eigenvectors, which are applied to show the spatial distribution characteristics of the data. Our method has been applied to detect borehole strain data anomalies associated with the Wenchuan earthquake; the VMD demonstrates excellent separation performance for borehole strain signals, and eigenvalues and eigenvectors together reflect the accelerated deformation of focal faults and adjacent areas before earthquake in time and space.
On July 22, 2020, an earthquake with M(w)7.8 occurred in the southern part of Alaska Peninsula, USA. In this paper, the focal mechanism and rupture process of this earthquake are inversed with the far-field seismic waveform records and coseismic displacement data of near-field GPS stations. The results show that the Alaskan earthquake is a thrust type earthquake with a focal depth of 23km, a fault dip of about 17 degrees, and a maximum coseismic displacement of 914cm on the fracture surface. The seismic moment of the earthquake is 6. 94X 10(20) N.m and the magnitude is M(w)7.8. In addition, the rupture is not simply symmetrically distributed around the source. The rupture direction and aftershock distribution of the earthquake generally show a SW extension trend. According to the calculation results of plate convergence rate and fault locking ratio, the eastern segment of Shumagin seismic gap is capable of M8 earthquake. In terms of recurrence period, there are different intervals between the western and eastern segments of Shumagin, and they may be in different seismic periods.
The Hutubi underground gas storage facility in Xinjiang, China, with a maximum gas storage capacity of 10.7 billion m(3), provides a good opportunity to study seismicity potentially induced by the annually cyclic injection and extraction of natural gas. To statistically distinguish induced seismicity from the tectonic background, we investigate the background seismicity probability of each event using the space-time epidemic-type aftershock sequence model and a stochastic declustering method. Our statistical results suggest a potential link between gas injection and two groups of seismicity, with very low background seismicity probabilities during the first and second injection periods in August 2013 and May 2014, respectively. To better understand the earthquake physics, we relocate earthquakes by incorporating a dedicated mobile seismic network after refining the regional 1D velocity model by utilizing an artificial source. After double-difference relocations, those two groups of earthquakes move much closer to the faults bounding the rock storage units and are situated at a depth around 4 km, slightly deeper than the reservoir formation. Focal mechanism solutions of the two largest earthquakes (M-w 2.8 and 3.0) in August 2013 show a possibly unmapped reverse fault gently dipping to the south. Based on our high-resolution earthquake locations, we propose that these on-fault earthquakes are not hydrologically connected with the reservoir formation but are likely induced by poroelastic stress perturbations due to gas injection. Poroelastic stressing can have a larger impact on seismicity rate than pore pressure diffusion at large distances; hence, the distributions and sizes of preexisting faults might play a key role in seismic hazard assessments in our study region. Plain Language Summary Anthropogenic activities such as underground liquid injection are known to likely cause earthquakes. In comparison, it is unclear whether gas injection may also induce earthquakes, and if so what mechanisms are responsible. Here we conduct a systematic investigation of earthquakes associated with cyclic natural gas injection and extraction in the Hutubi underground gas storage (UGS) facility, Xinjiang, China. Because earthquakes near the UGS have the potential to damage UGS facilities and shatter the caprock integrity, understanding how gas injection may cause earthquakes is important for earthquake physics and also for secure UGS operations. In this study, we statistically identify two groups of gas injection correlated seismicity near the Hutubi UGS. Moreover, their causal links are strengthened by considering closer seismicity-injection distances and depths, based on our results of high-resolution earthquake relocations and estimated source fault geometry. Since these earthquakes are not hydraulically connected with the gas reservoir, they are likely induced by poroelastic stress perturbations due to the gas injection. We suggest that the conditions of preexisting faults play an important role in the potential seismic hazard. Our results also highlight the importance of near-filed seismic monitoring for UGSs to mitigate the risks of earthquakes induced by gas injection and extraction.
On May 14th and 18th, 2017 felt earthquakes were occurred around western part of Lembang area, Bandung, West Java, Indonesia with magnitude of M2.8 and M2.9, respectively. The first earthquake (M2.8) was felt by some people around epicenter area. We determined the earthquake location through re-picking of P-and S-wave arrival time recording by Indonesian Agency for Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysics (BMKG), network. Earthquake location was determined by using Hypoellipse code that employs a single event determination method. We also conducted focal mechanism analysis to estimate the type of fault slip. The results indicate the hypocenters location in the north and south of the western part of Lembang fault with the focus depth of similar to 5 km, respectively. Source mechanism solutions showed the type of earthquake is strike-slip fault. The occurrence of two recent small earthquakes need more attention about the activity of Lembang fault. The destructive earthquake related to displacement of the fault occurred on August 28, 2011 (M3.3) located at the western end of the Lembang fault. For further study, we have been deploying 6 temporary seismometers stations around Lembang fault in attempt to detect small events and to delineate subsurface seismic structure by applying tomography method.
The Weixi-Qiaohou Fault (WQF) is considered an important zone of the western boundary of the Sichuan-Yunnan block, and its seismicity has attracted much attention after a series of moderate-strong earthquakes, especially the Yangbi Ms6.4 earthquake that occurred on 21 May 2021. In the present research, we investigate major and trace elements, as well as hydrogen and oxygen isotopes, of 10 hot springs sites located along the WQF, which are recharged by infiltrated precipitation from 1.9 to 3.1 km. The hydrochemical types of most analyzed geothermal waters are HCO3SO4-Na, SO4Cl-NaCa, and SO4-Ca, proving that they are composed of immature water and thus are characterized by weak water-rock reactions. The heat storage temperature range was from 44.1 degrees C to 101.1 degrees C; the circulation depth was estimated to range between 1.4 and 4.3 km. The results of annual data analysis showed that Na+, Cl-, and SO42- in hot springs decreased by 11.20% to 23.80% north of the Yangbi Ms5.1 earthquake, which occurred on 27 March 2017, but increased by 5.0% to 28.45% to the south; this might be correlated with the difference in seismicity within the fault zone. The results of continuous measurements of NJ (H1) and EYXX (H2) showed irregular variation anomalies 20 days before the Yangbi Ms6.4 earthquake. In addition, Cl- concentration is more sensitive to near-field seismicity with respect to Na+ and SO42-. We finally obtained a conceptual model on the origin of groundwater and the hydrogeochemical cycling process in the WQF. The results suggest that anomalies in the water chemistry of hot spring water can be used as a valid indicator of earthquake precursors.
Objective: We review prior studies on the incidence of hypertension (HTN) after earthquakes and present a retrospective analysis of HTN after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. Methods: Prior reports on HTN incidence were reviewed and a retrospective chart review for diagnosis of HTN in 4,308 patient charts was performed over a 7 year period (five clinics). A retrospective cohort study (RCS) was then performed on 11 patients with linear follow-up. Results: The Literature review revealed a significant increase in acute and subacute HTN following earthquakes. However, the chronic effects of earthquakes varied. Our chart review uncovered no significant difference in diagnosed HTN in a Fort-Liberte clinic 128 kilometers (km) distant and 4 weeks post-event. A secondary linear RCS for 11 individuals, prior to and after the earthquake, also did not detect a significant change in HTN prevalence. Conclusion: Prior studies demonstrate acute and subacute, increases in HTN after earthquakes, but late changes have varied. Retrospective studies in the Fort-Liberte clinic, 128 km distant and 4 weeks post-event, revealed no significant change in HTN, confirming prior findings that changes in HTN after earthquakes are early and local events. Further work examining HTN after earthquakes is needed to improve early health care after natural disasters.
By using a broadband Lg attenuation model developed for the Tibetan Plateau, we isolate source terms by removing attenuation and site effects from the observed Lg-wave displacement spectra of the M 7.0 earthquake that occurred on August 8, 2017, in Jiuzhaigou, China, and its aftershock sequence. Thus, the source parameters, including the scalar seismic moment, corner frequency and stress drop, of these events can be further estimated. The estimated stress drops vary from 47.1 kPa to 7149.6 kPa, with a median value of 59.4 kPa and most values falling between 50 kPa and 75 kPa. The estimated stress drops show significant spatial variations. Lower stress drops were mainly found close to the mainshock and on the seismogenic fault plane with large coseismic slip. In contrast, the highest stress drop was 7.1 MPa for the mainshock, and relatively large stress drops were also found for aftershocks away from the major seismogenic fault and at depths deeper than the zone with large coseismic slip. By using a statistical method, we found self-similarity among some of the aftershocks with a nearly constant stress drop. In contrast, the stress drop increased with the seismic moment for other aftershocks. The amount of stress released during earthquakes is a fundamental characteristic of the earthquake rupture process. As such, the stress drop represents a key parameter for improving our understanding of earthquake source physics.
The slip and static stress drop of the 2015 M-w 7.8 Gorkha, Nepal earthquake has been studied using its excellent near-source static observations and a newly developed finite fault inversion algorithm with an average stress drop constraint. A series of nonlinear inversions with different target stress drops are conducted to search for the solution that not only most accurately fits the geodetic data, but also has an energy-based stress drop, (Delta) over bar tau(E), matching the target value. Our result reveals that the misfit to the geodetic data gradually decreases when the (Delta) over bar tau(E) of the inverted slip model increases from 2 to 7MPa; but becomes nearly constant when (Delta) over bar tau(E) further increases. Hence, only the lower bound of (Delta) over bar tau(E), that is, (Delta) over bar tau(min)(E) (similar to 7 MPa), of the Gorkha earthquake can be constrained with near-fault geodetic measurements, consistent with our previous study using just far-field seismic data. The upper bound of (Delta) over bar tau(E) can be constrained with an extra constraint on the maximum local stress drop. An artificial upper bound can also be reached if using a large subfault size to represent the source. The lower bound of (Delta) over bar tau(E) leads to the lower bound of the apparent available energy and the upper bound of the radiation efficiency (eta(R), 0.09-0.15), though the latter is also sensitive to the determination of the radiated seismic energy. We find that the lower eta(R) and the reported high rupture velocity (80-93 per cent shear wave speed) can be reconciled by considering the aspect ratio of the dominant slip patch. We recommend using (Delta) over bar tau(min)(E) to replace various slip smoothing constraints to stabilize the finite fault inversion because of its clear physical meaning.
The Gutenberg-Richter Law describes the frequency-magnitude distribution of earthquakes. A number of studies have shown that the slope (b value) of the relationship between frequency and magnitude decreased before large earthquakes. Based on the analysis of the earthquake catalog from January, 2000 to April, 2008, we have investigated seismicity change and b value variation prior to the M(s)8.0 Wenchuan earthquake. The results show clear drops of both monthly and quarterly frequency of earthquakes during 2005-2006. The b value exhibits a long-term decrease trend since 2002, and reaches to the minimum just before the onset of the main shock. The temporal variation of b value is quite similar to that prior to the M(w)9.0 Tohoku earthquake in Japan, which may reflect the stress evolution during the preparation process of large earthquakes. These results indicate that the b value is an important indicator of an impending great earthquake, and has high potential in terms of predicting a future large quake.
Before the M (L) 6.6 Meinong earthquake in 2016, intermediate-term quiescence (Q (i)), foreshocks, and short-term quiescence (Q (s)) were extracted from a comprehensive earthquake catalog. In practice, these behaviors are thought to be the seismic indicators of an earthquake precursor, and their spatiotemporal characteristics may be associated with location, magnitude, and occurrence time of the following main shock. Hence, detailed examinations were carried out to derive the spatiotemporal characteristics of these meaningful seismic behaviors. First, the spatial range of the Q (i) that occurred for similar to 96 days was revealed in and around the Meinong earthquake. Second, a series of foreshocks was present for similar to 1 day, clustered at the southeastern end of the Meinong earthquake. Third, Q (s) was present for similar to 3 days and was pronounced after the foreshocks. Although these behaviors were recorded difficultly because the Q (i) was characterized by microseismicity at the lower cut-off magnitude, between M (L) 1.2 and 1.6, and most of the foreshocks were comprised of earthquakes with a magnitude lower than 1.8, they carried meaningful precursory indicators preceding the Meinong earthquake. These indicators provide the information of (1) the hypocenter, which was indicated by the area including the Q (i), foreshocks, and Q (s); (2) the magnitude, which could be associated to the spatial range of the Q (i); (3) the asperity locations, which might be related to the areas of extraordinary low seismicity; and (4) a short-term warning leading of similar to 3 days, which could have been announced based on the occurrence of the Q (s). Particularly, Q (i) also appeared before strong inland earthquakes so that Q (i) might be an anticipative phenomenon before a strong earthquake in Taiwan.
The discrimination of natural earthquakes and quarry blasts is an important part of earthquake monitoring and early warning. In recent years, the fast-developing deep learning algorithm with its powerful data feature extraction and image recognition capabilities can quickly and accurately constrain the classifications of seismic events. The multi-input convolutional neural network is used to construct the automatic classification network of natural earthquake and quarry blasts. The input layer includes the waveform data of multiple stations and the spectrogram data of a single station, so that the multi-input convolutional neural network can learn the waveform, spectrogram, and polarity characteristics of the event at the same time. Earthquakes and quarry blasts recorded in Utah, the United States in 2012 are used to construct the training data set, and the known natural earthquakes and quarry blasts from 2013 to 2016 in the area are utilized to test the trained network model. The results show that the multi-input convolutional neural network has high recognition accuracy, and the discrimination accuracy is as high as 97%.
Kappa (kappa) describes the amplitude decay of acceleration Fourier spectrum at high frequencies. Using the records of K-NET and KiK-net stations during the mainshock of the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, we examine if the typical measurement method of kappa can be extended to this size of event and how propagation path and site condition affect kappa. The strength of the linear relationship between epicentral distance and kappa is the most apparent in the KiK-net borehole data; for other data sets, the statistical significance of the best-fitting logarithmic model is more tenuous. Our study on site effects reveals that high-frequency amplitudes diminish about 20% at soft soil stations than they do at hard rock stations. The effect on high-frequency filters is around diminution in most cases. And, the effect of nonlinear site response on kappa values can be observed.
To rapidly identify earthquake damage areas after earthquakes occur, a method based on Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) night-time light (NTL) images with nearly constant contrast (NCC) is proposed. The differences between post-earthquake and mean image of 3months VIIRS NCC NTL before an earthquake are taken to reflect the effects of earthquakes on city light brightness loss, with eliminating the influence of clouds, lunar and solar irradiance, and poor-quality NCC NTL pixels. In addition, the standard deviation (STD) of the NTL images collected during the 3 months before an earthquake is calculated. Then, the areas with the differences less than -1 times the local STD are taken to be earthquake damage areas, and the areas with differences less than -2 times the local STD are taken to be severely damage areas. Finally, this method is applied to the 2015 Nepal moment magnitude (Mw) 7.8 earthquake, the 2014 Chile Mw 8.1 earthquake, and the 2015 Chile Mw 8.3 earthquake. Compared with Prompt Assessment of Global Earthquakes for Response output for selected cities impacted by these earthquakes, the results show that the overall accuracies are 14.9%, 75.0%, and 68.4% respectively, for the three earthquakes with the accuracy increases with greater earthquake intensities.
ObjectiveTo evaluate resilience and frequency of behavioral symptoms in Haitian children internationally adopted before and after the earthquake of January 12, 2010.MethodsWe conducted a retrospective quantitative study in 40 Haitian children. Families were also asked to participate in a qualitative study (individual interview at 18-24 months after the earthquake) and to complete State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) and STAI for children (STAI-C) questionnaires.ResultsDemographic and clinical characteristics were similar in the group who experienced the earthquake (n=22) and in the group who did not (n=18). The families of 30 adoptees were interviewed. There was no statistical difference between the two groups for the STAI (P=0.53) and STAI-C (P=0.75) or for the frequency of behavioral problems. Plenary adoption was pronounced for 84.6% and 33.3% of the children adopted in the pre- and post-earthquake group, respectively (P=0.02). Children rarely talked about the experience of the earthquake, which, by contrast, was a stressful experience for the adoptive families.ConclusionsHaitian children adopted after the earthquake did not express more stress or behavioral problems than those adopted before it. However, the possibility of a resurgence of mental disorders after age 10 should be borne in mind. (Disaster Med Public Health Preparedness. 2018;12:450-454)
The Sea of Marmara accommodates segments of the North Anatolian Fault (NAF) in Turkey and remains the only part of the western NAF that has not ruptured during the last century. At its nearest, the segment is similar to 20 km from Istanbul, the largest city in Turkey. Thus, it is important to understand the locking state of the fault, since it illuminates the strain accumulation rate along the fault segments, which in turn is an important input parameter in seismic hazard studies. To infer the interplate locking state, we used repeating earthquakes that indicate fault creep in the surrounding area using long-term (April 2005 to May 2013) seismic observations at 12 broadband seismic stations operated by Bogazici University Kandilli Observatory and Earthquake Research Institute. We defined repeating earthquakes from waveform coherences that were > 0.95 for 40-second-long waveforms of the vertical component. Using the selection procedure, we found 21 repeating earthquakes with magnitude 2.3 to 3.2 that are grouped into 9 sequences. They are distributed along the main NAF, comprising three groups of activity, one group in the Sea of Marmara and a group either side to the east and west. The three groups are located near the boundary of previous large earthquake ruptures, suggesting relatively weak coupling there. We also estimated the fault creep rate from the cumulative slip of the repeating earthquakes using a scaling relationship between repeating earthquakes' moment and slip. The slip rate for these three groups are similar (3-4 cm/yr) and comparable to, albeit slightly higher than, those expected from global plate models (similar to 2.4 cm/yr). This suggests relatively weak locking around the groups. The relocation results of the repeating earthquake hypocenters in the Sea of Marmara suggest the creep is occurring at 10 to 20 km depth. These results suggest heterogeneous coupling in the segment.
The Madoi M7. 4 earthquake occurred on May 22, 2021, in Madoi County, Qinghai Province. It is located at similar to 70 km south of the East Kunlun fault zone on the northern boundary of the Bayan Har block. So it belongs to the intra-block fault zone earthquake. According to the data provided by the China Continental Tectonic Environment Monitoring Network, 25 cm permanent east-west displacement is recorded at the Madoi Station, which is more than 30 km away from the epicenter. Meanwhile, the InSAR also observes obvious deformation field, with the maximum relative LOS (Line of Sight) of ascending and descending about 1. 87 m and 2. 32 m, respectively. In order to interpret these geodetic observation data, we use seismic dislocation theory of different Earth models based on three fault slip models to calculate the coseismic deformation field and compare results with GNSS observation and InSAR LOS deformation. The result indicates the displacement field generated by the fault slip model which is inversed by InSAR data is good agreement with the theoretical calculation with the spherical earth model. Furthermore, we use the better fault model to calculate the theoretical coseismic displacement, geoid, gravity and strain changes of the 2021 Qinghai Madoi M7. 4 earthquake. The results provide a theoretical basis for GNSS and gravity observation interpretation of Madoi earthquake.
A normal-fault earthquake (M-w = 7.1) occurred in the state limit of Puebla and Morelos on September 19, 2017, exactly 32 years after the 1985 Michoacan Earthquake. A total of 5765 buildings suffered damage in Mexico City and about 300 in Puebla City. The authors carried out a reconnaissance of Mexico City, and some locations in the states of Puebla and Morelos, to identify the affected areas and the extent of damage. This report is a summary of the damage characteristics observed during the survey for both structural and geotechnical aspects. A series of microtremor measurements were taken to understand the ground motion characteristics in three key areas of the Mexico City Basin. The results are presented and compared to the data gathered from the accelerograph network available in Mexico, and the damage characteristics are discussed. Whenever relevant, the conditions before the earthquake are compared with the damage encountered by the inclusion of photographs. In order to understand the extent of the damage incurred by the 2017 earthquake, an overview is provided of the geological and geotechnical conditions of Mexico City, which is renowned for its soft soils and problems associated with those soils. Given that the 1985 Michoacan Earthquake established the standards for seismic design in Mexico City, this report provides background on the effects of the 1985 earthquake and comparisons are made with the Puebla earthquake. (C) 2018 Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of The Japanese Geotechnical Society.
Songyuan is the most earthquake prone area in northeast China. Since 2006, earthquakes have occurred in the area in the form of swarms, with a maximum magnitude ofM(L)5.8. There is much controversy about the cause of the Songyuan earthquakes. We attempted to determine the cause using a three-dimensional electrical conductivity structure inverted from a regional network of magnetotelluric data in the Songyuan area. The L-BFGS inversion method was applied, with a full-impedance tensor data set used as the inversion input. Combined with an evaluation of the earthquake locations, the resistivity model revealed a northeast-oriented hidden fault running through the Songyuan earthquake area (SEA), which was speculated to be the preexisting Fuyu-Zhaodong Fault (FZF). Our resistivity model also found an apparent lithospheric low-resistivity anomaly beneath the earthquake area, which breached the high-resistivity lithospheric mantle and stalled at the base of the crust. A petrophysical analysis showed that this lower crustal low-resistivity anomaly was most likely attributed to hydrated partial melting, which could release water into the lower crust during later magma emplacements. While weakening the strength of the FZF, these ascending fluids also increased the pore pressure in the fault, further reducing the shear strength of the fault. Shear stress action (a fault strike component of the east-west regional compress), together with possible near-surface disturbances, may drive the fault to slip and trigger the earthquakes in Songyuan. It is possible that the continuous replenishment of fluids from the deeper mantle forces the Songyuan earthquakes into the form of swarms. We infer that the Songyuan earthquakes could be attributed to a combination of preexisting faults, regional stress, and deep fluids associated with plate subduction, and near surface disturbances might induce the earthquakes in advance. The Songyuan earthquakes are inherently induced earthquakes, fed by deep fluids.
This paper contributes to ongoing global efforts to estimate probable earthquake population losses. Several models have been developed to estimate the population losses such as the number of killed, injured and hospitalized, injured and non-hospitalized, trapped, and non-injured people. However, there was lack of research on the estimation of the number of trapped people in Iranian context which is the main reason in conducting of this study. Data were collected based on a two-stage cluster sampling method through an interview survey from 396 people who experienced the Barn earthquake in Iran, 2003 regarding building damage and population losses in each household. The cross-tabulation analysis was performed to calculate the probability of each class of population losses, and point density analysis in GIS was applied to identify the spatial distribution of population losses throughout the study area. Moreover, a Wilcoxon Signed Rank Test, Root Mean Square Error (RMSE), Mean Absolute Error (MAE) and Fuzzy Inference System analyses were carried out to measure the validity of the statistical and spatial results in comparison with the Actual Earthquake (AE) data. These analyses clarified that survey data significantly improved estimation results of population losses against KHM model. Furthermore, the estimation of the number of trapped people according to data gathered in Iran is promising, as it can play a significant role in disaster response operations. This factor can make a key contribution to the efficiency of allocation of limited resources, particularly Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) operational teams.
In 2008, theMw7.9 Wenchuan earthquake killed >80,000 and injured more than 370,000 people in the province of Sichuan, China. About 5 years later,Mw6.6 Lushan earthquake occurred on 20 April 2013, only similar to 90 km further south. More recently, in 2017, a third event,Mw6.5 Jiuzhaigou earthquake, occurred similar to 250 km north of the Wenchuan earthquake epicenter. These events were all along the Longmen Shan thrust belt in eastern Tibet. The questions posed by these events still reverberate in the Chinese and international geoscience communities. In this special section, we summarize and report new data sets, observations, and modeling results of the eastern Tibet during the last decade. It covers the tectonics of eastern Tibet, the seismology, and the surface response of the earthquake. All these contributions will provide new insights into the geodynamics of the eastern Tibet. We further highlight a number of outstanding questions that remain to be addressed.
On January 24, 2020, an earthquake with the Mw of 6.8 occurred on the East Anatolian Fault Zone in Elazig Province, Turkey, and triggered many landslides. Even though Turkey is in a high seismic zone and has highly susceptible areas to landslides, event-based inventories of landslides triggered by earthquakes have not yet been published in the international literature. The purpose of the present study is to compile the landslide inventory triggered by the Elazig earthquake. A novel approach involved change detection analyses was applied by using high-resolution 3D digital surface models (DSMs) obtained from pre- and post-earthquake aerial photos. In the study, a total of 328 landslides sized between 133 m(2) and 3 x 10(6) m(2) were mapped by visual interpretations. The rollover effect and fractal dimension of the failures were obtained as 3600 m(2) and -1.48, respectively. The total landslide area including new active zones developed after 2018 within the existing mass was calculated as approximately 8 x 10(6) m(2). According to the volumetric change analyses, the displacements were between -17.66 m and 14.11 m. It is evident that using photogrammetric methods to produce very high-resolution DSMs enables precise determination of landslide activity after an earthquake and increases the quality of the inventory. Consequently, application of the surface comparison methods immediately after large earthquakes provides great benefits in obtaining new landslide data open up important possibilities for a better understanding of the mechanism of landslides triggered by earthquakes, thus minimizing losses sourced from them.
A primary task of a network-based, earthquake early warning system is the prompt event detection and location, needed to assess the magnitude of the event and its potential damage through the predicted peak ground shaking amplitude using empirical attenuation relationships. Most of real-time, automatic earthquake location methods ground on the progressive measurement of the first P-wave arrival time at stations located at increasing distances from the source but recent approaches showed the feasibility to improve the accuracy and rapidity of the earthquake location by using the additional information carried by the P-wave polarization or amplitude, especially with unfavorable seismic network lay-outs. Here, we propose an evolutionary, Bayesian method for the real-time earthquake location which combines the information derived from the differential P-wave arrival times, amplitude ratios and back-azimuths measured at a minimum of two stations. As more distant stations record the P-wave, the posterior pdf is updated and new earthquake location parameters are determined along with their uncertainty. To validate the location method, we performed a retrospective analysis of mainshocks (M > 4.5) occurred during the 2016-2017 Central Italy earthquake sequence by simulating the typical acquisition layouts of in-land, coastal and linear array of stations. Results show that with the combined use of the three parameters, 2-4 s after the first P-wave detection, the method converges to stable and accurate determinations of epicentral coordinates and depth even with a nonoptimal coverage of stations. The proposed methodology can be generalized and adapted to the off-line analysis of seismic records collected by standard local networks.
We calculate well-resolved corner frequencies and radiated energies for a set of 96 earthquakes divided into two clusters located in the same tectonic setting but with different depths in northern Chile. Fifty-three shallow events with a mean depth of 20 km are analyzed, along with 43 intermediate-depth earthquakes with a mean depth of 110 km. We deduce and compare their static (stress drop Delta sigma) and dynamic (rupture energy E-G and radiation efficiency eta(R)) source parameters and test the implications of different common assumptions on their depth dependence, such as stress drop invariance, strain drop invariance, or constant rupture velocities. Our data show that, in this zone of Chile, most of these models imply higher rupture velocities at depth than for shallow earthquakes. In these cases, high stress drop, high fracture energy release rate, and higher radiation efficiency are observed for intermediate-depth earthquakes, suggesting short and impulsive ruptures. Plain Language Summary Seismicity deeper than 60 km represents only 20% of the recent observed seismic activity in Chile but can produce real destruction, such as the magnitude 7.8 Tarapaca earthquake in 2005. The physical mechanisms by which these earthquakes initiate and propagate still remains unclear, and quantitative observations and analyzes are needed to understand them better. This study shows that the energy released is used differently in intermediate-depth earthquakes than in the shallow earthquakes in the northern part of Chile. By analyzing the model properties needed to explain these shallow and deep earthquakes, we show that these differences are strongly dependent on how fast the earthquake occurs. We then compare the influence of this rupture speed on how our set of earthquakes initiates and show that the intermediate-depth earthquakes in northern Chile seem to start more quickly with shorter bursts of energy than the shallow earthquakes.
Whether changes in animal behavior allow for short-term earthquake predictions has been debated for a long time. Before, during and after the 2016/2017 earthquake sequence in Italy, we deployed bio-logging tags to continuously observe the activity of farm animals (cows, dogs, and sheep) close to the epicenter of the devastating magnitude M6.6 Norcia earthquake (Oct-Nov 2016) and over a subsequent longer observation period (Jan-Apr 2017). Relating 5,304 (in 2016) and 12,948 (in 2017) earthquakes with a wide magnitude range (0.4 <= M <= 6.6) to continuously measured animal activity, we detected how the animals collectively reacted to earthquakes. We also found consistent anticipatory activity prior to earthquakes during times when the animals were in a building (stable), but not during their time on a pasture. We detected these anticipatory patterns not only in periods with high, but also in periods of low seismic activity. Earthquake anticipation times (1-20 hr) are negatively correlated with the distance between the farm and earthquake hypocenters. Our study suggests that continuous bio-logging of animal collectives has the potential to provide statistically reliable patterns of pre-seismic activity that could yield valuable insights for short-term earthquake forecasting. Based on a priori model parameters, we provide empirical threshold values for pre-seismic animal activities to be used in real-time observation stations.
Absolute gravity repeated measurements at Pixian station, about 35 km away from the epicenter of the 2008 Wenchuan Mw 7.9 earthquake, have been carried out over more than a decade. Four pre-earthquake measurements at the Pixian station show 30 mu Gals increase from 2002 to 2008, but 13 measurements since 2008 shows that the trend of gravity increase ended after the Wenchuan earthquake. We analyzed the gravity effects from ground vertical motions using data from continuous GPS stations collocated with the Pixian absolute gravimetry station, and surficial and hydrological processes using local hydrological data. We found that these effects are much smaller than the observed gravity increase before the earthquakes, the continuously gravity increase before the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake cannot be explained by the groundwater level change and vertical deformation and related superficial reasons. All absolute gravity was measured by the FG-5 gravimeter. In this study, the high-precision gravity change revealed that the pre-earthquake gravity increase may be caused by strain and mass (fluid) transfer in broad seismogenic source regions. Further studies are needed to validate such pre-earthquake gravity changes, which however are difficult to be resolved from space-based gravity models.
It has recently been shown in the Eastern Mediterranean that by combining natural time analysis of seismicity with earthquake networks based on similar activity patterns and earthquake nowcasting, an estimate of the epicenter location of a future strong earthquake can be obtained. This is based on the construction of average earthquake potential score maps. Here, we propose a method of obtaining such estimates for a highly seismically active area that includes Southern California, Mexico and part of Central America, i.e., the area (N10W80120)-W-35. The study includes 28 strong earthquakes of magnitude M & GE;7.0 that occurred during the time period from 1989 to 2020. The results indicate that there is a strong correlation between the epicenter of a future strong earthquake and the average earthquake potential score maps. Moreover, the method is also applied to the very recent 7 September 2021 Guerrero, Mexico, M7 earthquake as well as to the 22 September 2021 Jiquilillo, Nicaragua, M6.5 earthquake with successful results. We also show that in 28 out of the 29 strong M & GE;7.0 EQs studied, their epicenters lie close to an estimated zone covering only 8.5% of the total area.
Earthquakes in the Zagreb area on 22nd March 2020 were an occasion to estimate earthquake-related noise in minute magnetograms and its significance to the geomagnetic information renewal i.e.,survey of geomagnetic networks, reduction, and modelling of the geomagnetic information (that is, declination and its annual variation). Firstly, the distinction of geomagneticaly quiet and disturbed days was vividly portrayed by comparison of Q1 (quiet) and D1* (disturbed) days of March 2020 in the geomagnetic observatory Lonjsko polje magnetograms. The day of 22nd March was rather quiet geomagnetic day, therefore the comparison of available magnetograms of the observatories Lonjsko polje and Nagycenk was performed. Identification of earthquakes on magnetograms was limited by the uncertainties of observatory and epicentre coordinates, magnitudes of the earthquake waves' velocities, times of their occurrence at observatories, rounding of earthquakes times to whole minutes, and filtering observatories' records into minute (and preliminary) magnetograms. Comparisons of observatories minute magnetograms during the observed day did not unequivocally indicate earthquakes; seemingly the earthquakes noise was less than the effects of the quiet days' geomagnetic disturbances. The differences of variations, obtained by removing the diurnal variation from centred magnetograms, in Lonjsko polje and Nagycenk, at the earthquakes' times were found negligible, less than 10 for the declination, 5 for the inclination, and 0.6 nT for the total intensity. Thus, the contribution of the noise of earthquakes of comparable features was estimated negligible in the context of the geomagnetic information renewal.
The purpose of the present study is to investigate simultaneously pre-earthquake ionospheric and atmospheric disturbances by the application of different methodologies, with the ultimate aim to detect their possible link with the impending seismic event. Three large earthquakes in Mexico are selected (8.2 Mw, 7.1 Mw and 6.6 Mw during 8 and 19 September 2017 and 21 January 2016 respectively), while ionospheric variations during the entire year 2017 prior to 37 earthquakes are also examined. In particular, Total Electron Content (TEC) retrieved from Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) networks and Atmospheric Chemical Potential (ACP) variations extracted from an atmospheric model are analyzed by performing statistical and spectral analysis on TEC measurements with the aid of Global Ionospheric Maps (GIMs), Ionospheric Precursor Mask (IPM) methodology and time series and regional maps of ACP. It is found that both large and short scale ionospheric anomalies occurring from few hours to a few days prior to the seismic events may be linked to the forthcoming events and most of them are nearly concurrent with atmospheric anomalies happening during the same day. This analysis also highlights that even in low-latitude areas it is possible to discern pre-earthquake ionospheric disturbances possibly linked with the imminent seismic events.
This work presents an analysis of the ESA Swarm satellite magnetic data preceding the Mw = 7.1 California Ridgecrest earthquake that occurred on 6 July 2019. In detail, we show the main results of a procedure that investigates the track-by-track residual of the magnetic field data acquired by the Swarm constellation from 1000 days before the event and inside the Dobrovolsky's area. To exclude global geomagnetic perturbations, we select the data considering only quiet geomagnetic field time, defined by thresholds on Dst and a(p) geomagnetic indices, and we repeat the same analysis in two comparison areas at the same geomagnetic latitude of the Ridgecrest earthquake epicentre not affected by significant seismicity and in the same period here investigated. As the main result, we find some increases of the anomalies in the Y (East) component of the magnetic field starting from about 500 days before the earthquake. Comparing such anomalies with those in the validation areas, it seems that the geomagnetic activity over California from 222 to 168 days before the mainshock could be produced by the preparation phase of the seismic event. This anticipation time is compatible with the Rikitake empirical law, recently confirmed from Swarm satellite data. Furthermore, the Swarm Bravo satellite, i.e., that one at highest orbit, passed above the epicentral area 15 min before the earthquake and detected an anomaly mainly in the Y component. These analyses applied to the Ridgecrest earthquake not only intend to better understand the physical processes behind the preparation phase of the medium-large earthquakes in the world, but also demonstrate the usefulness of a satellite constellation to monitor the ionospheric activity and, in the future, to possibly make reliable earthquake forecasting.
Earthquake detection and phase picking play a fundamental role in studying seismic hazards and the Earth's interior. Many deep-learning-based methods, including the state-of-the-art model called Earthquake Transformer (EqT), have made considerable progress. However, the processing of low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) seismograms remains a challenge. Here, we present a pair-input deep-learning model called Siamese Earthquake Transformer (S-EqT), which achieves good performance on low SNR seismograms using the latent information in the deep-learning black box of the pre-trained EqT model on a seismic array. We compare the EqT and S-EqT models on 2 weeks of continuous seismograms recorded by stations around northern Los Angeles region in California. In addition to showing a good performance similar to the EqT model on high SNR seismograms, the S-EqT model retrieves similar to 40% more reliable picks from low SNR seismograms, resulting in better earthquake characterizations. Our method provides a novel perspective on earthquake monitoring by highlighting the importance of hidden responses inside a deep-learning model and shows its great potential for seismology.
With five earthquakes (1938, 1946, 1957, 1964, and 1965), the Aleutian-Alaska subduction plate boundary ruptured a length of 3,548 km. We revisit these five earthquakes-first studied in detail by Sykes (1971, )-through probabilistic relocation of carefully selected mainshocks and aftershocks. Our final catalog of 324 events is established from a set of 12 mainshocks that includes all M-w >= 7.7 megathrust earthquakes. Using the relocated catalog, we create revised aftershock regions delimited both parallel and normal to the trench. These aftershock regions exhibit significant differences from previous studies, with the following basic findings: the 10 November 1938 M-w 8.3 earthquake extended further west, to the Shumagin Islands, and further east, into the Kodiak region, relative to the prevailing aftershock region established by McCann et al. (1979, ). The 01 April 1946 M-w 8.6 sequence was anomalously concentrated near the trench, which implies near-trench coseismic slip that contributed to the exceptionally large tsunami. The 09 March 1957 M-w 8.6 aftershocks spanned a 1,230 km length with numerous aftershocks within the outer-rise region of the incoming Pacific plate. The 28 March 1964 M-w 9.2 aftershocks extended east into the Pamplona thrust system (south of Icy Bay, Alaska), suggesting coseismic rupture into this region; this is consistent with coseismic static displacements, as well as current estimates of interseismic locking. The post-1965 events we examine are all smaller than the earlier events, but since they occurred in an era of improved data collection (seismic, geodetic, and tsunami), they provide a better opportunity for assessing the link between the distribution of aftershocks and the occurrence of coseismic, postseismic, and interseismic slip.
The unexpected effect of a distant earthquake is studied in this paper, which caused a landslide at the eastern part of the hotel Atrium in Thassos Island, Northern Aegean Sea in Greece. The area is geologically located in the tectonic active fault damage zone of gneiss and sandstone. The movement of the fault was activated by the earthquake and accelerated the slope sliding. In order to describe the mechanism of the sliding and decide the appropriate restoration, the rock mass classification of Blastability Quality System (BQS) is used. The results are combined with those of the classical Slope Mass Rating (SMR) classification system and it is showed that both estimates are really close. Considering the presence of the active fault and the rock mass quality as it was estimated by the above classifications, the restoration can be a flexible system with gabions and benches which follow the geometry of the potential critical sliding cycle so, it can absorb the fault movement during future earthquakes. The cracked small wedges can be prevented from sliding by wire mess. In addition to all of them, a drainage system and toe ditch needs to drive the water of the rainfall out of the slope.
A large dataset of water pipeline damage from the February and June 2011 earthquakes in Christchurch, New Zealand is used to fit and compare four mathematical model types logistic regression, boosted regression trees (BRT), random forest (RF), and the repair rate (RR) method common in the literature. Cross validation and holdout validation are employed with multiple metrics to fully evaluate the models' ability to accurately predict the total number and approximate spatial distribution of damaged pipes; to correctly classify each individual pipe as damaged or not, and to describe the relative importance of pipe and earthquake attributes in predicting damage. Results suggest that while BRT offers the best overall performance, logit offers the advantages of a closed form solution and an ability to compare pipe materials explicitly, and the far simpler RR method is very good at predicting the total number of damaged pipes, though less capable of prediction at the individual pipe or suburb level.
The Madoi M(s)7.4 earthquake occurred at 2:04 on May 22, 2021, in Madoi County, Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture of Golog, Qinghai Province. As of May 27, there were similar to 2700 aftershocks. The depth of this earthquake is 17 km. The epicenter is located at 34.59 degrees north and 98.34 degrees east. The location of the Madoi earthquake is similar to 70 km south of the East Kunlun Fault Zone at the northern boundary of the Bayan Har block. Combining the epicenter location, aftershock distribution, high-precision satellite image interpretation, and active fault distribution, the preliminary judgment of the seismogenic fault is the Madoi-Gade Fault Zone in the southern part of the East Kunlun Fault Zone. In this paper, we present the results of the magnetotelluric profile along the 20 km northwest of the epicenter of the Madoi earthquake, with a length of about 280 km, revealing that the source area is located at the junction of the high conductivity and high resistivity bodies in the middle and lower crust. Comparing the magnetotelluric results of different earthquakes at the eastern and northern boundaries of the Bayan Har block, we find that the sources of moderate-strong earthquakes occurring in the Bayan Har block and its boundary fault zones are mostly located at the electrical boundary zone. The three electromagnetic profiles of the Maqu section of the East Kunlun Fault reveal a similar deep tectonic background to that of the Madoi earthquake. Since the paleoseismic and historical seismic data reveal that the last seismic event in the Maqu-Maqen section of the East Kunlun fault has exceeded or is close to its recurrence cycle, it is necessary to focus on the seismicity and risk of this section. Based on a comprehensive analysis of the geology, geomorphology, and deep electrical structure of the Bayan Har block, we believe that the Madoi-Gade fault and other northwest oriented left-slip faults within the Bayan Har block controlled occurrences of earthquakes such as the 1947 Dari M(s)7.7 earthquake and 2021 Madoi M(s)7.4 earthquake. These faults have a long interval of earthquake recurrence. Boundary faults such as the East Kunlun fault and Garze-Yushu-Xianshuihe fault, which have higher slip rates, controlled the occurrences of the 2001 Kunlunshan M8.1 earthquake, 2011 Yushu M7.1 earthquake, and other strong earthquakes. Earthquake recurrence of these faults is short. The two kinds of fault systems with different scales and slip rates move in concert, making the deformation process more diffuse and continuous. They regulate the deformation of different blocks on the Tibetan Plateau, which are different from the more rigid blocks such as the Tarim, Qaidam, Ordos, and Yangtze blocks in mainland China. There are still some seismic gaps inside the Bayan Har block along the Longriba fault and the Wudaoliang-Changshagongma fault. It is suggested to strengthen the research work on seismic geology and deep seismogenic environment in the future. The results of magnetotelluric sounding in this paper show that the thickness of the high conductive layer in the middle and lower crust of the northern boundary zone of the Bayan Har block is significantly smaller than that in the eastern region. It is assumed that the tectonic deformation in the Aba sub-block on the northwest side of the Longriba fault is dominated by the horizontal motion of the left slip. The thickening of the middle and lower crust is smaller. However, the shortening and thickening of the middle and lower crust within the Longmenshan sub-block between the southeast of the Longriba fault and the Longmenshan fault zone is significant, indicating that the shortening and thickening continuously absorb the horizontal slip movement on the northwest side in the southeast of the Longriba fault. This long-term tectonic deformation process gradually converts into vertical uplift in the Longmenshan fault zone and the area to the west (e.g., Songpan earthquake, Wenchuan earthquake, and Jiuzhaigou earthquake), further promoting the rapid erosion and denudation and geomorphological evolution process since the Miocene on the eastern margin of the Tibetan Plateau.
Enhancing the earthquake behavioral responses and post-earthquake evacuation preparedness of building occupants is beneficial to increasing their chances of survival and reducing casualties after the mainshock of an earthquake. Traditionally, training approaches such as seminars, posters, videos or drills are applied to enhance preparedness. However, they are not highly engaging and have limited sensory capabilities to mimic life-threatening scenarios for the purpose of training potential participants. Immersive Virtual Reality (IVR) and Serious Games (SG) as innovative digital technologies can be used to create training tools to overcome these limitations. In this study, we propose an IVR SG-based training system to improve earthquake behavioral responses and post-earthquake evacuation preparedness. Auckland City Hospital was chosen as a case study to test our IVR SG training system. A set of training objectives based on best evacuation practice has been identified and embedded into several training scenarios of the IVR SG. Hospital staff (healthcare and administrative professionals) and visitors were recruited as participants to be exposed to these training scenarios. Participants' preparedness has been measured along two dimensions: 1) Knowledge about best evacuation practice; 2) Self-efficacy in dealing with earthquake emergencies. Assessment results showed that there was a significant knowledge and self-efficacy increase after the training. In addition, participants acknowledged that it was easy, helpful, and engaging to learn best evacuation practice knowledge through the IVR SG training system.
The spatial correlation of earthquake ground motion intensity can be measured from strong motion data; however, the data used in past studies is sparsely sampled in space, and only the interstation distance was considered as a correlation variable. These limitations mean that we have only weak constraints on the true correlation structure of ground motion and that potentially important aspects of spatial correlation are unconstrained. In this study, we combine a large-N seismic array and graph analytics to explore this issue at a local scale using small local and regional earthquakes. Our result suggests site conditions, and how they interact with the incident seismic wavefield, strongly condition the spatial correlation of ground motion. Future progress in characterizing ground motion spatial variability will require dense wavefield measurements, either through nodal deployments, or perhaps distributed acoustic sensing measurements, of seismic wavefields. Aftershock sequences of major earthquakes would provide particularly data-rich targets of opportunity.
Earthquakes as spatio-temporal complex systems have been recently studied using complex network theory. Seismic networks are dynamical networks due to addition of new seismic events over time leading to establishing new nodes and links to the network. Here we have constructed Iran and Italy seismic networks based on Hybrid Model and testified the preferential attachment hypothesis for the connection of new nodes which states that it is more probable for newly added nodes to join the highly connected nodes comparing to the less connected ones. We showed that the preferential attachment is present in the case of earthquakes network and the attachment rate has a linear relationship with node degree. We have also found the seismic passive points, the most probable points to be influenced by other seismic places, using their preferential attachment values. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The concept of the Unified Scaling Law for Earthquakes (USLE), which generalizes the Gutenberg-Richter relationship making use of the fractal distribution of earthquake sources in a seismic region, is applied to seismicity in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region, FVG (Northeastern Italy) and its surroundings. In particular, the temporal variations of USLE coefficients are investigated, with the aim to get new insights in the evolving dynamics of seismicity within different tectonic domains of FVG. To this purpose, we consider all magnitude 2.0 or larger earthquakes that occurred in 1995-2019, as reported in the catalog compiled at the National Institute of Oceanography and Applied Geophysics (OGS catalog), within the territory of its homogeneous completeness. The observed variability of seismic dynamics for three sub-regions of the territory under investigation, delimited based on main geological and tectonic features, is characterized in terms of several moving averages, including: the inter-event time, tau; the cumulative Benioff strain release, Sigma; the USLE coefficients estimated for moving six-years time intervals, and the USLE control parameter, eta. We found that: 1) the USLE coefficients in FVG region are time-dependent and show up correlated; 2) the dynamical changes of tau, Sigma, and eta in the three sub-regions highlight a number of different seismic regimes; 3) seismic dynamics, prior and after the occurrence of the 1998 and 2004 Kobarid (Slovenia) strong main shocks, is characterized by different parameters in the related sub-region. The results obtained for the FVG region confirm similar analysis performed on a global scale, in advance and after the largest earthquakes worldwide. Moreover, our analysis highlights the spatially heterogeneous and non-stationary features of seismicity in the investigated territory, thus suggesting the opportunity of resorting to time-dependent estimates for improving local seismic hazard assessment. The applied methods and obtained parameters provide quantitative basis for developing suitable models and forecasting tools, toward a better characterization of future seismic hazard in the region.
In this study, the relative gravity data (2012-2015), GPS data-derived horizontal deformation (2011-2014) and the background vertical deformation from the leveling measurements (1970-2011) in the northeastern margin of Tibetan Plateau were processed to systematically analysis the mechanism of temporal-spatial patterns and the relationship with Menyuan Ms6.4 earthquake. It can be summarized in the following: 1) The regional gravity changes, the GPS and the vertical deformational showed an intense spatial relationship: the gravity increased along with the direction of horizontal movement, and decreased with the crustal uplift and vice versa, which reflected the inherited characteristics of geotectonic activities. 2) The crustal deformations were closely related to the active faults. The contour lines of gravity changes and vertical deformation were generally along with the Qilian-Haiyuan fault (strike is NWW), and the crustal horizontal deformation showed left-lateral strike slip motion near the Qilian-Haiyuan fault. 3) Menyuan Ms6.4 earthquake occurred in the high negative gravity variation area and a high gradient formed in regions, positive and negative variation of gravity amount to 110 mGal. Specifically, a borderline of positive and negative gravity located in the south of epicenter along the north edge of Qilianshan fault and Lenglongling fault, as well as the vertical and/or horizontal deformation is intensely. The extrusion deformation, surface compression rate and gravity changes were obvious near the epicenter of 2016 Menyuan Earthquake. (c) 2019 Institute of Seismology, China Earthquake Administration, etc. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
Teleseismic, or distant, earthquakes regularly disrupt the operation of ground-based gravitational wave detectors such as Advanced LIGO. Here, we present EQ mode, a new global control scheme, consisting of an automated sequence of optimized control filters that reduces and coordinates the motion of the seismic isolation platforms during earthquakes. This, in turn, suppresses the differential motion of the interferometer arms with respect to one another, resulting in a reduction of DARM signal at frequencies below 100 mHz. Our method greatly improved the interferometers' capability to remain operational during earthquakes, with ground velocities up to 3.9 mu m s(-1) rms in the beam direction, setting a new record for both detectors. This sets a milestone in seismic controls of the Advanced LIGO detectors' ability to manage high ground motion induced by earthquakes, opening a path for further robust operation in other extreme environmental conditions.
Microgravity surveying is a widely used geophysical method, especially for detection of deeper features which are difficult to detect with other techniques. However, the accuracy of the readings is strongly affected by the amount of microseism noise, which is typically rejected by using long integration times for each measurement cycle. Large seismic events such as earthquakes create large ground acceleration waves which have been known to affect gravity readings. While previous data which have been collected serendipitously, tend to only record the final readings, unique long-duration datasets during and after three earthquakes including the raw data (sampled at 6-10 Hz) from field gravimeters (Scintrex CG-5 and CG-6) in static locations recorded during surveys are presented. The aim of the current study is to characterise both long and short-term effects of the generated seismic accelerations on measurement accuracy and repeatability, and identify changes to commercial practice to mitigate these effects.During earthquakes, the nature of the microseism noise was fundamentally altered by each of the different associated seismic waves. Minor effects were found for body P-and S-waves, but much larger effects were found for surface waves, especially the Rayleigh waves which gave errors many times those which would occur in normal conditions. These accelerations persisted in the data for several hours or even days after the earthquake affecting instrument performance. The main finding is that the optimum course of action is to identify the earthquake early by analysing the data in the frequency domain through FFT, switch to 60 s cycles and return to the base station until the strongest waves have passed. Surveying on subsequent days was affected by lower frequency free earth oscillations requiring removal of the unwanted signals using linear trends between at least hourly base stations. Using these techniques will both facilitate data collection as well as improve data confidence in these challenging conditions. Instruments operating in a gradiometer configuration were shown to be comparatively unaffected by the increased noise for typical commercial integration times paving the way for the next generation of instruments to operate successfully, even with this challenging environmental noise.
The radiated energy during earthquakes is one of the essential characteristics that have a significant impact on human lives. The study of the released energy during earthquakes and their distribution may provide a detailed knowledge about the driving forces. In the present work, the earthquakes having magnitude (ML) between 1.98 and 7.3 that occurred between 1994 and 2017 in and around Taiwan between the latitudes 21.5 degrees N - 25.5 degrees N and longitudes 119 degrees E - 123 degrees E are used to study the spatial distribution of energy in Taiwan. The maximum reported focal depth for the used earthquakes is 320 km. ML is converted to energy with necessary correction in the existing conversion formula using a correction factor based on the energy of two earthquakes that occurred in Taiwan. It is found that the distribution of earthquake numbers and energy is not uniform. In particular, 98% of the events occurred within 100 km depth; while, the remaining 2% were located at deeper depths. Most of the events, about 65% of the total earthquakes are confined to the upper 20 km depth. The earthquakes occurring to a depth of 100 km contribute about 88% of the energy in and around Taiwan. Only a few earthquakes occurring beyond 100 km depth contribute to around 12% of total released energy. The highest energy release is attributed to the eastern subduction along the Ryukyu trench. Our results show that the lower crust and upper mantle may play an essential role in energy distribution, though most of the earthquakes have occurred in the upper crust. Therefore, the temporal and spatial distributions of seismic energy release will be further studied to reveal the characteristics of the seismogenic zone in the future.
The accuracy of rapid earthquake assessment and the emergency assessment system for earthquake-induced damages could be substantially enhanced if the casualties triggered by earthquake-induced geological disasters, such as landslides, are subjected to comprehensive scientific evaluation. However, no credible solution for this purpose has been formulated yet. This study suggests a three-step rapid assessment method designed for earthquake-induced landslide casualties based on the GIS and an associated logistic regression model, as follows: (1) Partition of the region to be evaluated as a 1 km x 1 km grid in the GIS, with assignment of a certain amount of population to each of the grid cells as its population attribute. (2) Calculation of the death rate for each grid cell based upon its earthquake-induced landslide susceptibility attribute using the logistic regression model. (3) The earthquake-induced landslide casualties are first determined for each of the kilometer grid cells, and then for the entire region under evaluation. The proposed method was implemented to test the assessment of earthquake-induced landslide casualties in three earthquake-stricken regions. The study reveals the feasibility of the extensibility and applicability of the proposed rapid assessment method for earthquake-induced landslide casualties, and its suitability for similar assessments and calculations of other regions.
Since earthquake catalogs are not complete over the magnitude range covered, one should check the completeness of catalogs before any use. To this end, I propose a new method based on the Chi-square test to assess the completeness of earthquake catalogs. The performance of the method was tested using simulated earthquake catalogs. The performance test revealed that the method slightly underestimates the magnitude of catalog completeness, m(c) at the significance level lower than about 20%. Even in this condition, however, the maximum earthquake, m(max) and the Richter-b can still be estimated with acceptable accuracies unless the catalog size is not too small. It is not recommended to increase the significance level for a better estimation of m(c) because the estimation of m(c) itself is not an ultimate goal but just a preliminary step to the other studies such as estimation of Richter-b or m(max). The application of the method to the Korean earthquakes showed that an optimal significance level can be chosen from the investigation of the behavior of estimates over a range of the significance level. The performance of the method was also compared with those of the two existing methods using the sub-catalogs of the Japanese earthquakes and the Switzerland earthquakes: the present method gives the largest estimates of m(c). The application to real catalogs suggests that an optimal significance level is specific to each catalog. Therefore, it is empathized that one should investigate the behaviors of estimates over a range of the significant level to confirm the stability of estimates.
Geometric discontinuities within fault systems known as geometric barriers contribute to irregular rupture evolutions during earthquakes. We applied a hybrid backprojection method to high-frequency teleseismic P-waveforms to investigate the role of geometric barriers in the rupture propagation during the M-W 7.9 2008 Wenchuan, China, earthquake. We found that sources of high-frequency waves were concentrated near the intersections of a northwest-trending cross-cutting fault with the dominant northeast-trending fault system and in areas around steps between fault segments of the dominant fault system. We recognized these areas as geometric barriers to rupture propagation. Our analysis of the high-frequency waves associated with the geometric discontinuities within the fault system showed that geometric barriers can decelerate or stop rupture propagation, but can also accelerate rupture when the rupture front crosses a geometric barrier and instigates rupture in an adjacent fault segment. Our result suggests that geometric discontinuities within fault systems can cause earthquake rupture propagation that is more complex than that of faults of simpler geometry associated with subduction zone megathrust earthquakes.
We attempt to clarify processes associated with the 2019 Ridgecrest earthquake sequence by analyzing space-time variations of seismicity, potency values, and focal mechanisms of earthquakes leading to and during the sequence. Over the 20 years before theM(w)7.1 mainshock, the percentage of normal faulting events decreased gradually from 25% to below 10%, indicating a long-term increase of shear stress. TheM(w)6.4 andM(w)7.1 ruptures terminated at areas with strong changes of seismic velocity or intersections with other faults producing arresting barriers. The aftershocks are characterized by highly diverse focal mechanisms and produced volumetric brittle deformation concentrated in a 5-10 km wide zone around the main ruptures. Early aftershocks of theM(w)7.1 event extended over a wide area below typical seismogenic depth, consistent with a transient deepening of the brittle-ductile transition. The Ridgecrest earthquake sequence produced considerable rock damage in the surrounding crust including below the nominal seismogenic zone.
The number of offshore wind turbine farms in seismic regions has been increasing globally. The seismic performance of steel monopile-supported wind turbines, which are the most popular among viable structural systems, has not been investigated thoroughly and more studies are needed to understand the potential vulnerability of these structures during extreme seismic events and to develop more reliable design and assessment procedures. This study investigates the structural performance assessment of a typical offshore wind turbine subjected to strong ground motions. Finite element models of an offshore wind turbine are developed and subjected to unsealed natural seismic records. For the first time, the sensitivity to earthquake types (i.e. crustal, inslab, and interface) and the influence of soil deformability and modeling details are investigated through cloud-based seismic fragility analysis. It is observed that monopile-supported offshore wind turbines are particularly vulnerable to extreme crustal and interface earthquakes, and the vulnerability increases when the structure is supported by soft soils. Moreover, a refined structural modeling is generally necessary to avoid overestimation of the seismic capacity of offshore wind turbines.
An earthquake is a very common natural disaster. Numerous studies have focused on the acute phase, but studies concerning the subacute phase after an earthquake were very limited. This aroused more attention being paid to medical relief in the subacute phase, and this study elaborated on the division of the medical relief period and the definition of medical relief targets. More importantly, major types of disease were analyzed by reviewing the relevant published studies, which were identified by searching electronic databases. Findings suggested that the clear division of medical relief stage is vital for determining the priority of medical aid and allocating medical resources scientifically, and all concerned populations should be targeted for medical assistance. The focus of acute phase is injury (64.2%), and the subacute phase is disease (27.8% respiratory disease, 22.9% common disease, 12.5% wound/injury, 10.5% skin disease, 8.7% gynecological and pediatric disease, 8.5% digestive disease). However, due to the limited available studies, the included articles perhaps did not reflect the actual proportion of each type of disease. More studies are needed to better understand the proportion of different diseases in each phase of an earthquake.
The 2010 M-W 7.2 El Mayor-Cucapah earthquake ruptured a zone of similar to 120 km in length in northern Baja California. The geographic distribution of this earthquake sequence was well constrained by waveform relocation. The depth distribution, however, was poorly determined as it is near the edge of, or outside, the Southern California Seismic Network. Here we use two complementary methods to constrain the focal depths of moderate-sized events (M >= 4.0) in this sequence. We first determine the absolute earthquake depth by modeling the regional depth phases at high frequencies (similar to 1 Hz). We mainly focus on Pn and its depth phases pPn and sPn, which arrive early at regional distance and are less contaminated by crustal multiples. To facilitate depth phase identification and to improve signal-to-noise ratio, we take advantage of the dense Southern California Seismic Network and use array analysis to align and stack Pn waveforms. For events without clear depth phases, we further determine their relative depths with respect to those with known depths using differential travel times of the Pn, direct P, and direct S phases recorded for event pairs. Focal depths of 93 out of 122 M >= 4.0 events are tightly constrained with absolute uncertainty of about 1 km. Aftershocks are clustered in the depth range of 3-10 km, suggesting a relatively shallow seismogenic zone, consistent with high surface heat flow in this region. Most aftershocks are located outside or near the lower terminus of coseismic high-slip patches of the main shock, which may be governed by residual strains, local stress concentration, or postseismic slip.
Earthquake disaster risk analyses provide significant scientific guidance for reducing earthquake disaster losses etc. The current commonly used method is based on the vulnerability of different types of buildings to evaluate, and may ignore the difference between the seismic resistance of the same type of buildings in different areas. The lethal level considers a series of reasons such as different types of buildings, resulting in different capacities for casualties, the lethal levels of the cities in the same subregion are considerably different and exhibit obvious distribution characteristics. In Yancheng and Suqian, the lethal levels in urban areas are lower than those in rural areas, but the lethal levels in Guangzhou show the opposite trend (the lethal levels are higher in urban areas than in other towns and rural areas). The average lethal level in Guangzhou is 0.3856, that in Suqian is 0.5844, and that in Yancheng is 0.5912. This study based on the lethal levels, conduct a comparative analysis of the earthquake disaster risk of cities throughout eastern China, and a map of the earthquake disaster risk in each city is obtained. The overall lethal level and risk in Guangzhou is much lower than those in Yancheng and Suqian. The main influencing factors in the different cities also diverge. One reason for the lower lethal levels and risk in Guangzhou is that most of the brick-concrete structures are equipped with ring beams and structural columns; conversely, Yancheng and Suqian exhibit higher lethal levels and risk because the brick-concrete structures have ring beams but no structural columns. These maps provide a technical reference and solid scientific and technological support for further earthquake disaster risk analyses and for disaster prevention, mitigation and disaster relief planning, and this method improves the accuracy of rapid postearthquake assessment.
The Nepal Gorkha earthquake sequence of April-May 2015 killed 8790 people injured 22,300, and damaged around a million buildings. This paper presents a critical review of the challenges and opportunities for building back safer and quicker and reports findings from a survey conducted in 2018 with people in the affected areas and professionals working on recovery are reported. The aim of the survey was, firstly, to measure the speed and quality of recovery, not only of the built environment but also of the society and economy, and secondly to identify opportunities that were taken or missed to improve resilience to future earthquakes. The results highlight that the economy recovered in three years, that 90% of people were back in their homes after four years and that infrastructure and non-domestic constructions took five years to rebuild and repair. Overall, respondents felt the quality of housing and earthquake safety were better. They also thought the public's awareness of earthquake risk had increased. But, in rural and remote areas moreneeds to be done in technical training on earthquake resistant construction and respondents believe that this should be a focus of government policy.
The more the magnitude of the earthquake, the more is the damage. During an earthquake, the mobility of the soft soil gets augmented and because most of the bridges are built on soft soil, there are even more chances of the bridge behaving like a ship in the sea. The stability of the bridges is the most crucial task to avoid all disasters. Many bridges collapse during earthquake because their mobility, and sustainability cannot stand the magnitude of the earthquake. In this paper, we have proposed a method to predict whether a bridge will sustain damage or not after an earthquake by using factors like magnitude of the earthquake, distance to epicenter of the bridge, bridge type, material used to make bridge and many more, using many classification algorithms like Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest, XGBoost, and KNN. This prediction in turn will help to improve bridge sustainability during an earthquake, which in turn will help in saving many lives.
Very recently, it has been found that intense anomalies of the mesospheric ozone occur a few days before major earthquakes. This paper explores the credibility of this finding in the case of the last two major earthquakes in Greece. Indeed, the study of the mesospheric ozone vertical distribution showed that unusual anomalies occurred a few days before these two earthquakes. However, at time periods with no significant seismicity the same unusual changes in the mesospheric ozone vertical distribution were observed. Consequently, significant temporal changes of the mesospheric ozone can not be considered as precursors for upcoming significant seismic activity.
The load/unload response ratio (LURR) method has been proposed to evaluate earthquake potential. This method can be used to investigate the regional stress-strain field change and fault instability associated with the preparation of a large earthquake. In this study, we explore the temporal and spatial evolution of the LURR anomalies before the M7.0 Jiuzhaigou earthquake that occurred on Aug. 8, 2017 in Sichuan Province. We calculate the LURR values by using Benioff strain of the small earthquakes within 100, 200, 300 and 500 km from the epicenter and 12 years prior to the main shock. The loading and unloading phases are determined by calculating the change of Coulomb failure stress caused by earth tide in the tectonically preferred slip direction on the fault surface of the major event. Results show that the LURR values remain at a low level for years until 2014 when the LURR values increase to an anomalously high level. Meanwhile, the magnitude of the anomalies decrease with the distance from the epicenter, and can hardly be observed within the 500-km radius. Combining with the spatial distribution of the LURR, we find that the development of anomalies before the mainshock can be divided into two stages: during the periods of 2014-2015, the significant anomalies were observed in the epicenter and its northwest region; and then in 2016, the anomalies were detected in the southeast area of the earthquake, which expanded around the Huya fault and finally reached the epicenter months before the mainshock. The earthquake is located at the intersection area of LURR anomalies of the two time periods, suggesting the generation of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake.
A strong earthquake often precedes a tsunami, and a breakwater may settle during the earthquake. Such seismic subsidence of the breakwater may reduce its ability to block the tsunami, and the tsunami may easily enter coastal areas by overflowing it. This study deals with the instability of a breakwater due to an earthquake. In addition, to protect a breakwater from damage caused by an earthquake, a new concept of using geogrid for reinforcing the foundation of a breakwater is introduced. To determine the behavior of unreinforced foundation and to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed reinforced foundation under different earthquake loadings, a series of shaking table tests were performed. It was observed that the earthquake generated excess pore water pressures and deformations of foundation ground were main reasons of failure of the breakwater. The reinforced foundation was found effective to reduce the earthquake-induced damage of the breakwater, and finally it makes the breakwater resilient against earthquake-induced forces. Numerical simulations were also performed to elucidate the mechanism of reinforcement-breakwater-soil-water system under different earthquake loadings.
This integrative review examines extant literature assessing the burden and management of noncommunicable diseases 6 months or more after earthquakes and tsunamis. We conducted an integrative review to identify and characterize the strength of published studies about noncommunicable disease-specific outcomes and interventions at least 6 months after an earthquake and/or tsunami. We included disasters that occurred from 2004 to 2016. We focused primarily on the World Health Organization noncommunicable disease designations to define chronic disease, but we also included chronic renal disease, risk factors for noncommunicable diseases, and other chronic diseases or symptoms. After removing duplicates, our search yielded 6,188 articles. Twenty-five articles met our inclusion criteria, some discussing multiple noncommunicable diseases. Results demonstrate that existing medical conditions may worsen and subsequently improve, new diseases may develop, and risk factors, such as weight and cholesterol levels, may increase for several years after an earthquake and/or tsunami. We make 3 recommendations for practitioners and researchers: (1) plan for noncommunicable disease management further into the recovery period of disaster; (2) increase research on the burden of noncommunicable diseases, the treatment modalities employed, resulting population-level outcomes in the postdisaster setting, and existing models to improve stakeholder coordination and action regarding noncommunicable diseases after disasters; and (3) coordinate with preexisting provision networks, especially primary care.
As an important indicator for landslide hazard and risk assessments, landslide mobility has attracted considerable attention in the literature, yet few studies have investigated seismic earthflows. Therefore, the earthflows induced by the 2018 Mw 7.5 Palu earthquake (Indonesia) and the 2018 Mw 6.5 Eastern Iburi earthquake (Japan) and their mobility characteristics were analyzed. Long-term irrigation for cultivation of wet rice and heavy rainfall produced by Typhoon Jebi introduced substantial moisture into alluvial fans (Palu earthquake) and pyroclastic fall deposits (Eastern Iburi earthquake), respectively, and seismic shaking liquefied these moist deposits, which consequently traveled long distances. Four earthflows that were triggered on very gentle slopes of 1-3 degrees by the Palu event exhibited very high mobility levels (H/L) of 0.0129, 0.01125, 0.0209 and 0.0271 (average H/L = 0.018), whereas 7058 earthflows triggered by the Eastern Iburi event exhibited an average mobility of 0.33. Different liquefied layers were located below or above the low permeability layer, and movement restrictions and complex final flow disturbances could be responsible for obvious mobility differences triggered by the two seismic events. However, the earthflow mobility induced by the Eastern Iburi earthquake was obviously higher than that of coseismic rock landslides worldwide and is described by the following relationship: H/L = 1.46-0.24 x log(10) (earthflow_area). Furthermore, the earthflow area, peak ground acceleration (PGA) and slope angle all have increase influences on mobility. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Repeating earthquakes repeatedly rupture the same seismic asperity and are strongly linked to aseismic slip. Here, we study the repeating aftershocks of the April 16, 2016 M-W 7.8 Pedernales earthquake in Ecuador, which generated a large amount of afterslip. Using temporary and permanent stations, we correlate waveforms from a one-year catalog of aftershocks. We sort events with a minimum correlation coefficient of 0.95 into preliminary families, which are then expanded using template-matching to include events from April 2015 to June 2017. In total, 376 repeaters are classified into 62 families of 4-15 events. They are relocated, first using manual picks, and then using a double difference method. We find repeating earthquakes during the whole period, occurring primarily within large aftershock clusters on the edges of the areas of largest afterslip release. Their recurrence times, shortened by the mainshock, subsequently increase following an Omori-type law, providing a timeframe for the afterslip's deceleration. Although they are linked temporally to the afterslip, repeater-derived estimates of slip differ significantly from GPS-based models. Combined with the fact that repeaters appear more spatially correlated with the afterslip gradient than with the afterslip maxima, we suggest that stress accumulation at the edge of the afterslip may guide repeater behavior.
To verify the relationship between AETA (Acoustic and Electromagnetics to Artificial Intelligence (AI)) electromagnetic anomalies and local earthquakes, we have performed statistical studies on the electromagnetic data observed at AETA station. To ensure the accuracy of statistical results, 20 AETA stations with few data missing and abundant local earthquake events were selected as research objects. A modified PCA method was used to obtain the sequence representing the signal anomaly. Statistical results of superposed epoch analysis have indicated that 80% of AETA stations have significant relationship between electromagnetic anomalies and local earthquakes. These anomalies are more likely to appear before the earthquakes rather than after them. Further, we used Molchan's error diagram to evaluate the electromagnetic signal anomalies at stations with significant relationships. All area skill scores are greater than 0. The above results have indicated that AETA electromagnetic anomalies contain precursory information and have the potential to improve local earthquake forecasting.
Although there is skepticism about the likelihood of predictive success, research on the prediction of an earthquake through precursory changes in natural parameters, including groundwater, has continued for decades. One of the promising precursors is the changes in groundwater, i.e., the level and composition of groundwater, and the monitoring networks are currently operated to observe earthquake-related changes in several countries situated at the seismically active zone. In Korea, the seismic hazards had not been significantly considered for decades since the seismic activity was relatively low; however, the public demands on the management and prediction of earthquakes were raised by two moderate-size earthquakes which occurred in 2016 and 2017. Since then, a number of studies that were initiated in Korea, including this study to establish a pilot-scale groundwater-monitoring network, consisted of seven stations. The network is aimed at studying earthquake-related groundwater changes in the areas with relatively high potentials for earthquakes. Our study identified a potential precursory change in water levels at one particular station between 2018 and 2019. The observed data showed that most monitoring stations are sufficiently isolated from the diurnal natural/artificial activities and a potential precursory change of water level was observed at one station in 2018. However, to relate these abnormal changes to the earthquake, continuous monitoring and analysis are required as well as the aid of other precursors including seismicity and geodetic data.
The 2018 M-w 6.4 Hualien earthquake struck the eastern Taiwan and caused serious damage. We investigate the rupture properties of the 2018 Hualien earthquake by inverting teleseismic body wave and forward modeling GPS coseismic deformation. The rupture process and slip pattern of preferred model explain both the far-field (teleseismic data) and near-field (GPS) observations. The results show that the 2018 Hualien mainshock ruptured southward on two fault segments, with a weak but fast initiation (3.0 km s(-1)) in the main west-dipping segment F1 and slow (2.0 km s(-1)) yet significant slip on shallow east-dipping segment F2. In the past few years, several moderate-sized events, which struck eastern Taiwan and caused strong ground shaking and some seismic damage, are considered occurring on the west-dipping fault. Additional investigations are required to building up the knowledge of this not well-known region.
The scaling of rupture properties with magnitude is of critical importance to earthquake early warning systems that rely on source characterization using limited snapshots of waveform data. ShakeAlert, a prototype earthquake early warning system that is being developed for the western United States, provides real-time estimates of earthquake magnitude based on P wave peak ground displacements measured at stations triggered by the event. The algorithms used in ShakeAlert assume that the displacement measurements at each station are statistically independent and that there exists a linear and time-independent relation between log peak ground displacement and earthquake magnitude. Here we challenge this basic assumption using the largest data set assembled for this purpose to date: a comprehensive database of more than 140,000 vertical-component waveforms from M4.5 to M9 earthquakes occurring near Japan from 1997 through 2018 and recorded by the K-NET and KiK-net strong-motion networks. By analyzing the time evolution of P wave peak ground displacements for these earthquakes, we show that there is a break, or saturation, in the magnitude-displacement scaling that depends on the length of the measurement time window. We demonstrate that the magnitude at which this saturation occurs is well-explained by a simple and nondeterministic model of earthquake rupture growth. We then use the predictions of this saturation model to develop a Bayesian framework for estimating posterior uncertainties in real-time magnitude estimates.
On September 28, 2018, the Mw 7.5 earthquake occurred in Palu, Central Sulawesi, Indonesia. This earthquake produced strong tremors, landslides, liquefaction and a tsunami and caused thousands of fatalities and damaged houses and infrastructure. We have relocated 386 of the 554 Palu aftershocks by using the double-difference relocation method (hypoDD) from September 28 to November 22, 2018. The aftershock pattern is consistent with the crustal deformation in the area and generally shows that the events have a NW-SE trending of similar to 200 km in length and similar to 50 km in width. Most of the aftershocks are located to the east of the Palu-Koro Fault Line. Since November 2, 2018, there have been hundreds of swarm earthquakes in the area of Mamasa, West Sulawesi, which is about 230 km south of the city of Palu. Some of these earthquakes were felt, and houses were even damaged. We have relocated 535 of the 556 swarm earthquakes having a magnitude of M 2 to M 5.4. Our results show that the seismicity pattern has a dip that becomes shallower to the west (dipping at a similar to 45 degrees angle) and extends from north to south for a length of similar to 50 km. We also conducted a focal mechanism analysis to estimate the type of fault slip for selected events of an M > 4.5 magnitude. Most of the solutions of the focal mechanism analysis show a normal fault type. This swarm earthquake probably corresponds to the activity of the fault in the local area.
In order to improve the accuracy and continuity of the on-site instrumental seismic intensity prediction, studying the PGV continuous prediction model for earthquake early warning. Predicting the 0.1 similar to 10 Hz band-pass filtered three-components vector synthetic peak velocity, the Chinese instrument seismic intensity standard, using the Japanese K-net and KiK-net network strong earthquake data in the 1 similar to 10 s time window after P wave arrivals, based on the machine learning method in artificial intelligence, least squares support vector machine, selecting 7 kinds of feature parameters as input to construct the least squares support vector machine PGV prediction model LSSVM-PGV. The results show that the prediction error standard deviation of the LSSVM-PGV model established in this paper on the training data set and the test data set tends to be consistent, LSSVM-PGV model has generalization performance. The predicted PGV and the measured PGV in 3 s after P wave arrivals can meet the 1 :1 relationship as a whole, as the time window increases, the standard deviation of the PGV prediction error decreases significantly, and tends to converge in 6 s after P wave arrivals, this shows that the LSSVM-PGV model has accurate continuous prediction capabilities. Compared with the common P-d-PGV model that is also the 3 s after P wave arrivals, the standard deviation of the PGV prediction error of the LSSVM-PGV model is significantly reduced, overestimation on small value and underestimation on large value phenomena have been significantly improved, and prediction accuracy has been improved. The analysis of earthquake examples of the Kumamoto earthquake sequence shows that for earthquakes below M(i)6. 5, the LSSVM-PGV model can predict a PGV that conforms to the 1 :1 relationship with the measured PGV overall at most 3 s after P wave arrivals. For the M(j)7. 3 main shock, due to the complexity of its rupture process, the predicted results in 3 s after P wave arrivals are somewhat underestimated, but as the time window grows to 6 s, the predicted PGV and the measured PGV are in a 1 :1 relationship, and the overall trend remains consistent until 10 s. The LSSVM-PGV model constructed in this paper can be used to predict the instrumental seismic intensity of on-site earthquake early warning.
Supershear earthquakes, analogous to supersonic speeds of sounds, show the presence of a Mach front in the top view. This feature was observed in several past earthquakes, including the 1999 Izmit earthquake, 2001 Kokoxili earthquake, to name a few. The ground motion from supershear ruptures can be destructive to structures due to dominant fault-parallel components. In this study, we demonstrate the effect of supershear ruptures on wind turbines by modelling them in OpenSees. Earthquake ruptures are simulated using SPECFEM3D, another open-source software. By considering arrays at different offsets along strike and away from the strike, the distance effect on serviceability limit states of wind turbines is studied using supershear and subshear earthquakes.
The shape of earthquake source spectra, traditionally fit by physics-based models, contains important parameters to constrain rupture dimension, duration and geometry. Here we apply machine learning (ML) to derive single- and double-variable data-driven models of source spectra from 3675 M-w > 5.5 global earthquakes, assuming that the Fourier transform of source time functions represent earthquake source spectra below 1 Hz. The single-variable ML model, in the same degree of freedom as the Brune model, improves the goodness of fit by 8.5 per cent. Specifically, the ML model fits the data without systematic bias, whereas the Brune model tends to underestimate at intermediate frequencies and overestimate at high frequencies. The latter discrepancy cannot be modelled by increasing the fall-off exponent in the Brune- or the Boatwright-type models. The double-variable ML model is compared to existing double-corner-frequency models and is found to capture the second-order features such as the subtle curvature differences around the corner. Our results demonstrate that unsupervised ML can extract hidden global characteristics of high-dimensional data and provide observational evidence to amend existing physical models.
We present a methodology that uses crowdsourced detections as an initial location to obtain fast and reliable hypocenter parameters for felt earthquakes using arrival-time data from the GEOFON Program. We derive selection criteria for issuing an alert message using a 3-year-long training set from the trial runs at the European-Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC) to identify accurate event locations at a high confidence level. Since an event may have several crowdsourced detections, we also develop a methodology dealing with multiple triggers. We validate the selection criteria using real-time processing of recent data and demonstrate that 95% of the selected events are within 50 km distance from the traditional seismic location published by the EMSC. SinceCsLocremains essentially a seismic location algorithm, the selection criteria measure the quality of the seismological network coverage used in the location, not the method itself. We show that our methodology provides accurate locations much faster than those published by conventional seismic methods. On average, the EMSCCsLocservice can provide rapid and accurate locations within a minute after the occurrence of a felt earthquake, thus it can provide timely and accurate information on a felt earthquake to the civil protection services and the general public.
Repeating earthquakes provide a novel way of monitoring how stresses load faults between large earthquakes. To date, however, and despite the availability of long-duration, high-quality seismological datasets, little attention has been paid to tectonic repeating earthquakes in New Zealand. We develop a workflow and composite criterion for identifying repeating earthquakes in New Zealand, using data from the GeoNet permanent seismic network, and present New Zealand's first decadal-scale repeating earthquake catalog. For events to be identified as repeating in this study, two or more events must have a normalized cross-correlation of at least 0.95 at two or more seismic stations, when calculated for 75% of the earthquake coda. By applying our composite criterion to seismicity around the Raukumara Peninsula, northern Hikurangi subduction margin, we have identified 61 repeating earthquake families occurring between 2003 and 2020, consisting of 347 individual earthquakes. These families have a magnitude range of M-L 1.7-5.2 and recurrence intervals of < 1 to similar to 7 yrs. Repeating earthquakes in 9 of the 11 regional groups identified in this study coincide spatiotemporally with previously identified slow-slip events and tremor. However, the responses shown to slow-slip are not consistent within families or within regional groups.
The Philippines, as part of the Circum-Pacific belt, is considered as one of the most seismically active countries in the world. Earthquake occurrence is frequent and its effects vary depending on its size. Understanding how the occurrences happen is therefore important. Stochastic models of earthquake occurrence have been used to study seismic activities in various active earthquake zones globally. In this paper, we apply Poisson hidden Markov models (PHMM) using the January 1, 1960 to January 20, 2019 earthquake data of Metro Manila, Philippines. The parameters in the models are estimated using expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm. We determine using various statistical tests that the 5-state PHMM best represents the earthquake data and implement bootstrap algorithm to validate the acceptability of its parameter estimates. Moreover, we investigate the forecasting capability of the 5-state PHMM by comparing it to the ARIMA model. Using unscaled mean bounded relative absolute error (UMBRAE), we find that the 5-state PHMM gives closer one-step ahead forecasts and is a better forecasting model for the considered data.
This study was carried out to understand China's earthquake governance and role-sharing, and to strategically use it for research cooperation in related fields with China. The characteristics of China's national earthquake governance and role-sharing are detailed in this study. First, unlike Korea, China's geoscience and earthquake research fields are separate, and are clearly distinguished from other fields of science and technology. They hold a higher status compared to other fields in China. Second, China's provincial earthquake agencies simultaneously carry out related tasks under the dual supervisory management system of the central and provincial governments. Third, the China Earthquake Administration (CEA) has the authority to do research and development, manpower training, and degree conferment, which are centered on directly affiliated institutions. Fourth, China carries out similar functions in directly affiliated institutions of the CEA and the China Geological Survey (CGS), and affiliated institutions of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), respectively. Fifth, the CEA is continuously expanding the seismic observation network that connects the vast land of the country. Sixth, China is considered to have detailed structures of earthquake-related laws and regulations. Given China's earthquake governance and role-sharing, it is considered that the possibility of success in research cooperation is high if Korea first determines whether it is under the jurisdiction of the CGS, CEA, and CAS, depending on the specific field.
The accuracy of earthquake localization is of great importance for earthquake monitoring systems. Traditionally, numerical optimization methods are used to estimate the hypocenter location and the origin time of an earthquake in an iterative manner. The traditional methods usually depend on certain theoretical models, but the geological conditions in practice can be quite different from the presumed models. In this study, an attention-based hypocenter estimation (AHE) model was proposed to locate the hypocenter and origin time of the earthquake. Rather than using the raw waveforms, the phase picking times and the positions of the triggered stations are used as the input. The attention mechanism is adapted to reveal the correlations among the input sequence. An experimental model was trained using data collected from earthquakes in Taiwan in 2016 and 2017 and tested on data in 2018. From the results, AHE is capable of locating the hypocenter with a high degree of accuracy in terms of the distance, depth, and origin time of earthquakes.
In earthquake-prone countries such as Japan, effects of earthquakes are one of the major design objectives in buildings and infrastructures. Recent advances in earthquake engineering have improved the safety and reliability of buildings and infrastructures. Better understanding of geomorphology of earthquakes also enables us to better predict and estimate propagation of such natural hazard. For example, the Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) system in Japan provides advanced warnings using the different arrival times of P and S waves. On the other hand, techniques and methods in passive, semi-active and active vibration control have flourished. Base-isolation is a proven technique which enhances earthquake resilience of buildings and bridges. In general, this technique involves decoupling a superstructure from its foundation and lengthens its natural period of vibration. This technique is mature and commercialization has taken place worldwide. However, wind-resistance of base-isolated structures is generally a concern as the lateral stiffness of a base-isolated structure is low and service-ability wind effects may induce unacceptable lateral movement and/or vibration of the structure. This paper presents a new concept which the base-isolation system is activated by EEW system through a mechatronic system. In other times the structure is not base-isolated and provides strong lateral resistance against wind loads. As a backup design, the proposed system also equips with its own network of accelerometers which can trigger base isolation system independent from EEW system. The smart mechatronic base isolation system is fully automated, and resets itself after each ground motion. The paper describes the conceptual framework of proposed system and presents laboratory-scaled proof-of-concept experiments. Four historical earthquake time histories were used as ground excitations. Structural responses are compared between the two triggering mechanisms and results are discussed. Finally, the concept of Internet of Things (IoT) which make use of EEW is discussed, allowing connectivity between a single control unit and a network of infrastructures to achieve economy of scale.
Huoshan earthquake area is located in the northern margin of Dabie orogen, i. e. , the contact zone between North China plate and Yangtze plate, where earthquakes are the most frequent and most concentrated in whole Dabie orogen and its surrounding area. A three-dimensional magnetotelluric array composed of 83 magnetotelluric stations covered the Huoshan earthquake area. Applying multi-grid method, impression and iterative reconstruction inversion technique and standard minimum structure nonlinear conjugate gradients method (NLCG), we inverted the array data and obtained the 3D electric structure beneath the area. The electrical structure reveals that mid-upper crust beneath North Dabie and North Huaiyang region is a high resistance area with the resistivity above 1000 Omega m and the mid-lower crust is a relatively low resistance area with tens of Omega m resistivity. The northwest-strike Xiaotian-Mozitan fault separate the North Huaiyang high resistivity layer from the North Dabie high resistivity layer. Fault dip is NE in the shallow and changes to SW in the deep. The northeast-strike Luoerling-Tudiling fault cuts through the high resistivity layer of North Dabie upper crust. Background seismicity relocated using the double difference earthquake location algorithm indicates : earthquakes mainly occurred in North Dabie and North Huaiyang high resistivity layer near the Luoerling-Tudiling fault, and were concentrated in the tectonic weak belt formed by early activities of Xiaotian-Mozitan fault. M(s)4. 3 Huoshan earthquake has a deeper focal depth, and is located at a big electrical gradient zone in North Dabie high resistivity layer. Based on the above results, we think the primary seismogenic fault in Huoshan earthquake area is Luoerling-Tudiling fault. Fluid from mid-crustal conductive body below the fault propagates along the fault. It weakens the fault strength. The kinematic and deformation of the fault makes full use of the tectonic weak belt along Xiaotian-Mozitan fault. Since the existence of significant high resistivity layers in North Dabie belt and North Huaiyang belt, we consider there is a deep seismogenic environment beneath Huoshan earthquake area where earthquakes of magnitude above six are possible.
Significant changes in groundwater systems were observed after the 2017 M-w 5.5 Pohang earthquake. Groundwater level changes cannot be explained solely by poroelastic responses to the earthquake. In this study, we analyzed hydrogeochemical data, including environmental isotopes (O-18, H-2, Sr-87/Sr-86, and Rn-222) of water samples as well as time-series data of groundwater level, temperature, and electrical conductivity. Principal component analysis (PCA) and physical modeling of pore pressure changes were also used. Some anomalies in time-series data could be explained by the distributions of pore pressure changes based on modeling. However, the other wells, which did not have the correlation between time-series data and modeling results, exhibited abnormal patterns in hydrogeochemical and isotope data. Stiff diagrams showed differing patterns of temporal change among groundwater wells. These diagrams and isotopic anomalies revealed possible mechanisms underlying the aftereffects of earthquakes, including saline water mixing, water-rock interactions, deep fluid upwelling, and bedrock fracture opening. These anomalous phenomena were related to the clusters derived by PCA and depended on the distance to the epicenter, faults, and sea water. This study highlights that a single measurement is insufficient to reliably interpret groundwater responses, whereas a combined hydrogeochemical and physical interpretation may provide critical information for clarifying anomalies related to earthquakes.
While unprecedented amounts of building damage data are now produced after earthquakes, stakeholders do not have a systematic method to synthesize and evaluate damage information, thus leaving many datasets unused. We propose a Geospatial Data Integration Framework (G-DIF) that employs regression kriging to combine a sparse sample of accurate field surveys with spatially exhaustive, though uncertain, damage data from forecasts or remote sensing. The framework can be implemented after an earthquake to produce a spatially distributed estimate of damage and, importantly, its uncertainty. An example application with real data collected after the 2015 Nepal earthquake illustrates how regression kriging can combine a diversity of datasets-and downweight uninformative sources-reflecting its ability to accommodate context-specific variations in data type and quality. Through a sensitivity analysis on the number of field surveys, we demonstrate that with only a few surveys, this method can provide more accurate results than a standard engineering forecast.
Movement of the conductive subsurface medium in the Earth's magnetic field can generate electromagnetic (EM) disturbances. This phenomenon is referred to as the motional induction (MI) effect and, though previously proposed as a possible mechanism for the generation of earthquake-associated EM signals, has not yet been well understood. In this study, we present a semianalytical method to derive the EM response to an earthquake due to the MI effect in a 3D horizontally layered model. We solve the coupled elastodynamic and Maxwell's equations in the frequency-wavenumber domain through the global matrix method and then compute the seismic and EM responses in the time domain. We first verify the proposed method by comparing results to the analytical solution in a full-space model and then conduct numerical simulations to investigate the properties of the EM fields and their sensitivities to the rock conductivity. Finally, we use the proposed method to model coseismic EM data observed during the 2008 M-w 6.1 Qingchuan earthquake. The results show that the simulated coseismic electric fields can fit the observed electric signals well in both arrival time and amplitude, suggesting that the MI effect is a possible mechanism for the generation of the observed electric signals. The simulated magnetic fields are 1 order of magnitude weaker in amplitude than the observed magnetic data, implying that the observed magnetic fields are mainly generated by other mechanisms.
The seismic performance of chimneys associated with permanent residential dwellings and mobile (manufactured) homes is documented via onsite reconnaissance including interviews with Anchorage building officials and contractors familiar with the earthquake damage and recovery efforts. Relatively few chimneys suffered structural damage, and there was no evidence of mobile homes shifting or toppling. The lack of damage is attributed to relatively modest shaking intensities and qualities of the housing inventory. State-of-practice fragility curves are assessed by comparison to observed damage.
One of the most important reasons for deaths and injuries caused by earthquakes is that society does not have sufficient knowledge of appropriate protective behaviors during an earthquake. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of different educational practices in providing primary school students with the knowledge of earthquake preparedness and protection from potential hazards of an earthquake. Considering the quasi-experimental research, the pretest-posttest control/comparison group design was used, and a total of 401 students from the fourth grade in four different schools constituted the sampling of the study. Within the study, three types of educational activities were applied: digital games evaluating smart learning environments, earthquake drills, and traditional education. Findings show that the most effective way to teach students what to do during an earthquake is the earthquake drill. This study also indicates that the design elements in the three-dimensional earthquake game developed in the scope of the research played an effective role in earthquake education. This study is of importance as it provides significant results on how to determine the most appropriate educational method for primary school students and how digital games can be used more effectively in the learning process.
National exercises are an excellent opportunity to practice earthquake preparedness. Such exercises can greatly benefit from productive communication between the civil protection agencies (CPs) and the earth sciences community (SC). The challenge of the scientists in this interaction is to properly formulate their message and convey their perspective in a manner understandable to the responsible emergency agencies. On October 2012, Israel held its first national earthquake emergency exercise (TP6) that examined the response of the country's systems at large to an M (w) similar to 7 earthquake. The exercise greatly benefited from brain storming meetings between the CPs and researchers from the Geological Survey of Israel (GSI) that were held prior to the drill. These helped in choosing the earthquake scenario and establish the concept of the exercise. Geological hazards and damage maps, including numerous discrete events, were prepared in advance with the HAZUS Multi-Hazard Loss Estimation software and were conveyed to the drilled authorities during the exercise. The exercise also benefitted from close collaboration between researchers of FEMA and the GSI. During the drill, the GSI and its relevant scientists practiced the preparation and transfer of the relevant material to the decision makers in real time. The drill provided the following lessons: (1) In real time, the damage maps should be delivered by earthquake researchers, thereby helping the CP agencies to grasp the information. (2) Damage maps should be prepared in advance and accessibly stored by the CP agencies for a range of probable scenarios. (3) Damage maps based on dot density that represent number of buildings damaged, number of casualties and weight of debris were found to be the most comprehensible when presenting the scope of the damage. The lessons learned from the collaboration between the CP and SC in TP6 provide an excellent example for optimal planning of national earthquake exercises, thereby helping in minimizing the anticipated impact of destructive earthquakes.
The PEER NGA-Sub database is used to derive new conditional ground motion models (CGMM) for estimating Arias intensity (I-a) for earthquakes in subduction zones. The estimate of I-a is conditioned on the estimated peak ground acceleration (PGA), the spectral acceleration at T=1sec (Sa1), shear-wave velocity in the top 30 m (V-S30), and magnitude (M-w). By combining the conditional models of I-a with ground motion models (GMM) in subduction earthquake zones for PGA and Sa1, new scenario-based models are developed for estimating I-a for interface and intraslab events. A conditional model of I-a captures inherently the more complex ground-motion scaling effects found in the GMMs on which it is based, such as, sediment-depth effects, soil nonlinearity effects, and regionalization effects. This approach also ensures the estimated I-a values are consistent with the other ground motion parameters estimated by the established GMMs. The conditional and scenario-based models to estimate I-a, are presented, and estimates from the new scenario-based I-a models are compared to those from traditional GMMs.
The Great East Japan Earthquake struck in March 2011, causing a huge tsunami on the northeastern coast of Japan. In the disaster area, there has been a movement to preserve the damaged structures as earthquake ruins. In this study, the characteristics of establishing consensus were investigated by clarifying how the earthquake ruins have been preserved and removed, and how the opinions of citizens were accounted for in the process of maintaining these sites. The study focused on 21 earthquake ruins in Miyagi Prefecture, which were the closest to the epicenter. We extracted 30 elements from the earthquake ruins maintenance process and created labels for them. From these, we prepared time-series charts and flowcharts and discussed the relation between entities and citizens' opinions regarding the maintenance process. We clarified four stages pertaining to the preserved ruins and found four types of relationships between the major opinions and treatment decisions. Furthermore, the periods following the earthquake were divided into three phases: pioneering, deliberation, and implementation. Consequently, we suggested that citizens' opinions, coupled with expert advice, could be used to help establish consensus in an incremental manner when making administrative decisions.
Long-term and wide-area geodetic observations may allow identifying distinct postseismic deformation processes following large earthquakes, and thus can reveal fault behavior and permit quantifying complexities in lithospheric rheology. In this paper, the first 7 years of GPS (Global Positioning System) displacement data following the 2008 Mw7.9 Wenchuan earthquake are used to study the relevant mechanisms of postseismic deformation. Two simple models that consider either afterslip or viscoelastic relaxation as the unitary mechanism of the postseismic deformation are tested at first. After analyzing the limitations and complementarity of these two separated models, a combined model incorporating the two main mechanisms is presented. In contrast to previous studies, which mostly assume that afterslip and viscoelastic relaxation are independent, our combined model includes the secondary viscoelastic relaxation effect induced by transient afterslip. Modeling results suggest that the middle- to far-field postseismic deformation is mainly induced by viscoelastic relaxation of the coseismic stress change in the lower crust, whereas the near-field displacement is dominantly caused by stress-driven aseismic afterslip. The seismic moment released by the transient afterslip corresponds to an Mw7.4 earthquake, or 25% of that released by the Mw7.9 main shock. With a characteristic decay time of 1.2 yr, most afterslip (similar to 80%) is released in the first 2 years. Negligible aseismic afterslip is observed in the seismic gap between the Wenchuan and Lushan earthquakes, indicating the locked state of the fault within this segment. The effective lower crustal viscosity of the eastern Tibetan Plateau is estimated to be 2.0 x 10(18) Pas, at least two orders of magnitude smaller than that of the adjacent Sichuan Basin. This finding is consistent with previous observations of low seismic velocity and high electrical conductivity in this region, all of which support the assumption that the crustal thickening in the eastern Tibetan Plateau is dominantly caused by ductile lower crustal flow, with important implications for understanding both long- and short-term crustal deformation processes. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In the case o seismic impact on rail infrastructure, even small deformations or damage to track structure can compromise safe operation of rail traffic. Damage can affect track substructure or permanent way of the track, but also the electrification system and safety-signalling devices. Ballast prism will suffer damage in case of greater intensity earthquakes, resulting in the reduction of lateral and longitudinal resistance of track structure. Earthquake action may also cause derailment of moving rail vehicles. Operation of rail vehicles also causes certain levels of vibrations, and so an analysis of subsequent effects of rail traffic.
The magnitude determination of earthquake is one of the most important and challenging parts in Early Earthquake Warning (EEW) system. In this paper, the method of determination of earthquake magnitude based on convolutional neural network (CNN) is proposed. This method transforms magnitude determination problem into a classification problem, by dividing earthquake magnitudes into 20 different categories which are greater than 2. 0 (ML>2. 0). In this paper, a total of 1928 earthquakes in Fujian, Taiwan Strait and Taiwan area recorded by Fujian Seismic Network from 2012 to 2019 were collected as research data; 14644 three component seismic records were obtained by station record interception, data tagging and quality screening along with other pre-processing procedures. A convolutional neural network (CNN) model for magnitude prediction was constructed by inserting three-second data records. The model was trained with the earthquake events from 2012 2018 and tested with the earthquake events in 2019. The results showed that 85. 6% of the magnitude deviation of a single station can be controlled within 0.3, and 91. 8% of the average magnitude deviation of the first three stations can be controlled within 0. 3. Those cases with relatively large deviation are mainly due to the lack of historical samples. Compared with the traditional methods, the magnitude determined by the CNN model is more stable and reliable, which can provide a new technical method for solving the challenging problem of EEW magnitude determination.
The 2021 Mw7.3 Maduo (Qinghai, China) earthquake ruptured similar to 160 km along a poorly known secondary fault inside the Bayanhar block on the northern Tibetan plateau, which is generally parallel to the Kunlun fault. Here we integrate the interseismic (2015-2020) and coseismic geodetic observations to quantify the interseismic strain rate, fault geometry and coseismic slip distribution. Our results reveal that the seismogenic fault is featured by the low (<20 nanostrain/yr) and nearly undetectable interseismic strain rate. Three-dimensional displacement fields and coseismic strain maps demonstrate the spatial variations of rupture kinematics due to the change of fault geometry. Our study reveals the steeply north-dipping fault geometry of the seismogenic fault. The majority of coseismic slip occurred between 0 and 15 km with slight shallow slip deficit, which not penetrates through the inferred elastic upper crust (similar to 20-25 km). Our study highlights the tectonic and geometric control on fault kinematics of the Maduo earthquake.
Detecting whether and how river discharge responds to strong earthquake shaking can be time-consuming and prone to operator bias when checking hydrographs from hundreds of gauging stations. We use Bayesian piecewise regression models to show that up to a fifth of all gauging stations across Chile had their largest change in daily streamflow trend on the day of the M-w 8.8 Maule earthquake in 2010. These stations cluster distinctly in the near field though the number of detected streamflow changes varies with model complexity and length of time window considered. Credible seismic streamflow changes at several stations were the highest detectable in eight months, with an increased variance of discharge surpassing the variance of discharge following rainstorms. We conclude that Bayesian piecewise regression sheds new and unbiased insights on the duration, trend, and variance of streamflow response to strong earthquakes, and on how this response compares to that following rainstorms.
In this study, the measured accelerations of a single smartphone were used to provide an earthquake early warning system. In the presented system, after the smartphone is triggered, the triggering event is then classified as an earthquake event or not. Once an earthquake event is detected, the peak ground acceleration is then predicted every second until 10 s after the trigger. These predictions are made by the neural network classifier and predictor embedded in the smartphone, and an alert can be issued if a large peak ground acceleration is predicted. The proposed system is unique among approaches that use crowdsourcing ideas for earthquake early warning because the proposed system provides on-site earthquake early warning. In general, the accuracy rates of the earthquake classifications and peak ground acceleration predictions of the system were quite high according to the results of large amounts of earthquake and non-earthquake data. More specifically, according to said earthquake data, 96.9% of the issued alerts would be correct and 61.9% of the earthquakes that exceeded the threshold would have resulted in an alert being issued before the arrival of the peak ground acceleration. Among the false negative cases, approximate 97.8% would occur because of negative lead time. Using the shake table tests of worldwide and Meinong earthquake datasets, the proposed approach is confirmed to be quite promising.
This paper discusses the origins of torsion and its effect on the response of structures with a focus on the contribution of experimental data. The fact that torsion increases the stresses in structures, augmenting strain and damage during earthquakes, was confirmed in the 1960s. Over the years, the torsional response of structures has mainly been analysed through numerical studies, because few buildings are equipped with translational sensors, and even fewer are equipped with rotational sensors. This is likely to change as building instrumentation becomes more widespread and new generations of rotational sensors are developed. Therefore, this paper focusses on a number of scientific questions concerning the rotational response of structures during earthquakes and the contribution of experimental data to the understanding of this phenomenon.
Taking the 2017M(w)6.5 Jiuzhaigou earthquake as a case study, ionospheric disturbances (i.e., total electron content and TEC) and thermal infrared (TIR) anomalies were simultaneously investigated. The characteristics of the temperature of brightness blackbody (TBB), medium-wave infrared brightness (MIB), and outgoing longwave radiation (OLR) were extracted and compared with the characteristics of ionospheric TEC. We observed different relationships among the three types of TIR radiation according to seismic or aseismic conditions. A wide range of positive TEC anomalies occurred southern to the epicenter. The area to the south of the Huarong mountain fracture, which contained the maximum TEC anomaly amplitudes, overlapped one of the regions with notable TIR anomalies. We observed three stages of increasing TIR radiation, with ionospheric TEC anomalies appearing after each stage, for the first time. There was also high spatial correspondence between both TIR and TEC anomalies and the regional geological structure. Together with the time series data, these results suggest that TEC anomaly genesis might be related to increasing TIR.
The empirical accelerograms of the September 18, 2011, Sikkim earthquake (M-w = 6.9) have been used in the present study to estimate its source parameters and to identify a representative relation for the attenuation of peak ground acceleration with distance. The spectra of high energy packets observed in the SH waves (approximated by transverse components of accelerograms) has been modeled using Brune's model. A two-step procedure has been adopted for this purpose. The estimated source parameters of the 2011 Sikkim earthquake have been found to be as - corner frequency (f(c)): 0.09 Hz, seismic moment (M-0): (2.43 +/- 0.5) x 10(26) dyne-cm, stress drop (Delta sigma): 50.4 +/- 9.28 bars, and the moment magnitude (M-w): 6.87 +/- 0.05. These estimated values have been found to be consistent with those of reported values obtained using different data sets and procedures. The high-frequency earthquake ground motions are governed by stress drop at the source. Therefore a value of stress drop estimated here is useful for the simulation of earthquake strong ground motions in the region. The attenuation characteristics of observed peak ground acceleration as a function of distance have been compared with those of obtained using five empirical relations. It has been found that a relation given by McGuire (1978) represents the attenuation characteristics of peak ground acceleration is relatively better. This relation may be used for estimating the peak ground acceleration of similar magnitude for future earthquakes in the region. This relation is also useful for the simulation of earthquake strong ground motions in the region using envelope technique. The outcome of the present study is useful for the estimation of the seismic hazard of the Sikkim region of the Himalaya.
This chapter examines how objective disaster risk perception, which is based on disaster prevention information such as hazard maps, has affected household disaster prevention and mitigation activities in the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake. The results of an analysis focusing on the purchase of earthquake insurance and implementation of household seismic retrofitting show that accessing disaster prevention materials does, on average, encourage household disaster prevention and mitigation activities. Furthermore, an examination of its relationship with objective earthquake occurrence risk-Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) 6- or higher earthquake occurrence probability-revealed that accessing disaster prevention information had a significant effect on households in both relatively low- and high-risk regions. This result is consistent with the hypothesis that consumer perception bias for earthquake risk is reduced by the dissemination of objective risk indicators based on disaster prevention information. As a result, the rise in the number of households who have accessed disaster prevention information since the earthquake could be linked to disaster prevention and mitigation activities by households, particularly in regions with low and high probability of earthquake occurrence.
In this paper, the flexural isostasy and gravity variations before the 2021 Madoi M(s)7. 4 earthquake were studied using the EIGEN6C4 Bouguer gravity anomalies, SIO V15. 1 topography model and the repeated gravimetry data. Firstly, based on the lithospheric flexural isostatic model, combining with Bouguer gravity anomalies and topography data, the effective elastic thickness (T-e) and the flexural isostatic gravity anomalies of the lithosphere in the epicenter and its surrounding area (northeastern Qinghai-Tibet Plateau) were calculated using the finite difference method. The results show that T-e ranges from 0 to 100 km in the northeastern Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, with obvious lateral changes and close relationship with block tectonic structures. To the north of the Bayan Har block, T-e of the Qaidam block is as high as 50 similar to 80 km, to the south, T-e of the Qiangtang block is larger than 20 km, with local high values larger than 30 km in the south of Wudaoliang and larger than 40 km around Yushu-Dege area. T-e of the Bayan Har block is 0 similar to 20 km, which is smaller than that of the north and south blocks, and it is more prone to deformation. Therefore, the mass in the Bayan Har block moves eastward under the north and south holding, and it is the primary area of eastward material flow in the central part of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Earthquakes are prone to occur in the transition zones of lithospheric strength change (T, gradient zones) , as well as on the faults where T-e is low. The Madoi M(s)7. 4 earthquake occurred in the area with low T-e inside the Bayan Har block, with an effective elastic thickness of about 15 km near the epicenter. The analysis of repeated gravimetry data before the earthquake shows that the 3 similar to 5 years' accumulated gravity variations since 2015 present a regional change characteristic of negative-positive-negative from west to east, and a high gradient zone of gravity variation perpendicular to the fault zone is formed with the epicenter as the boundary, which mainly reflects the deep tectonic movement situation in the process of material flow from the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau to east before the earthquake. The gravity variations since 2018 is mainly characterized by a weak regional change from positive in the west to negative in the east around the epicenter, which shows that the epicenter area has been in the solidification state of high stress and strain, and the earthquake occurred at the turning point of the zero value line of gravity variations.
The 2020 Jiashi M6.4 earthquake occurred in the Kaping fold-and-thrust belt, a major south-verging active thin-skin system in the southwestern Chinese Tien Shan Mountain, north of the Tarim Basin. Within 50 km from the epicentral area, seismic hazard is high, as suggested by the occurrence of the 1902 Mw 7.7 Artux (Kashgar) earthquake and 1997 Jiashi strong earthquake swarm. The seismogenic structure responsible for the 2020 event is not well constrained and is a subject of debate. We relocated the 2020 Jiashi earthquake sequence and assessed the relocation uncertainties, using eight seismic velocity models and based on detailed local and regional subcrustal structures from seismic profiles. Then we compared the temporal variation in the Gutenberg-Richter b-values of the 2020 sequence with those of the 1997, 1998, and 2003 earthquake sequences. Our results show that most events cluster at depths greater than 10 km, suggesting that the events most likely occurred beneath the decollement and inside the Tarim Craton. The spatiotemporal evolution of the sequence suggests that two groups of structures at depth were involved in the 2020 sequences: NW-SE-trending lateral strike-slip faults and E-W-trending reverse faults. The b-values of the 2020 sequence exhibits relatively stable temporal evolution, unlike those of the multi-shock sequence that occurred inside the Tarim Craton. It indicates that the 2020 sequence perhaps was influenced by the stress interaction with the 10 km thick overlying strata. Our study provides a new perspective on the seismogenic structure of the earthquakes that occurred because of reactivation of ancient structures developed in a stable craton.
Flat earthquake premiums are uniformly' set for a variety of buildings in many countries, neglecting the fact that the risk of damage to buildings by earthquakes is based on a wide range of factors. How these factors influence the insurance premiums is worth being studied further. Proposed herein is a risk-based approach to estimate the earthquake insurance rates of buildings. Examples of application of the approach to buildings located in Taipei city of Taiwan were examined. Then, the earthquake insurance rates for the buildings investigated were calculated and tabulated. To fulfil insurance rating, the buildings were classified into 15 model building types according to their construction materials and building height. Seismic design levels were also considered in insurance rating in response to the effect of seismic zone and construction years of buildings. This paper may be of interest to insurers, actuaries, and private and public sectors of insurance.
This article provides a random coefficient model for anticipating the occurrence trend of earthquake fatalities and rapidly estimating the number earthquake fatalities in China. We then predicted the number of earthquake deaths in China using 206 earthquake records from 1900 to 2016 and basing our predictions on the empirical regression method in the Prompt Assessment of Global Earthquakes for Response (PAGER) system. In general, half the total fatalities are usually certified in the first 23 h after an earthquake; 80% of all certified of an earthquake are usually certified in the first 77 h after an incident, and usually 164 h after an incident 99% of the total deaths are certified and the death toll tends to stabilize. A greater magnitude for an earthquake results in a longer duration for the rapid growth period, and a longer time is needed for the total number of deaths to stabilize. The fatalities in Wenchuan and Yushu earthquake calculated by our prediction model were 67,704 and 2,657, close to the actual fatalities of 69,227 and 2,698, respectively. Our dynamic estimation model to simulate death occurrence in changing environments can quickly estimate the earthquake death totals in Chinese earthquakes and accurately define the earthquake scale to facilitate post-earthquake emergency rescue.
In this study, we documented a case involving large-scale macroscopic anomalies in the Xichang area, southwestern Sichuan Province, China, from May to June of 2002, after which no major earthquake occurred. During our field survey in 2002, we found that the timing of the high-frequency occurrence of groundwater anomalies was in good agreement with those of animal anomalies. Spatially, the groundwater and animal anomalies were distributed along the Anninghe-Zemuhe fault zone. Furthermore, the groundwater level was elevated in the northwest part of the Zemuhe fault and depressed in the southeast part of the Zemuhe fault zone, with a border somewhere between Puge and Ningnan Counties. Combined with microscopic groundwater, geodetic and seismic activity data, we infer that the anomalies in the Xichang area were the result of increasing tectonic activity in the Sichuan-Yunnan block. In addition, groundwater data may be used as a good indicator of tectonic activity. This case tells us that there is no direct relationship between an earthquake and these anomalies. In most cases, the vast majority of the anomalies, including microscopic and macroscopic anomalies, are caused by tectonic activity. That is, these anomalies could occur under the effects of tectonic activity, but they do not necessarily relate to the occurrence of earthquakes.
The results of lidar observations of the atmosphere during the Sichuan (China) earthquake of 2008 are presented. It is shown that atmospheric parameters substantially changed during and after the earthquake. The profile of scattering characteristics formed in the lower troposphere differs from the original, which can serve as a predictor for earthquakes.
Earthquakes cluster in space and time resulting in nonlinear damage effects. We compute earthquake interactions using the Coulomb stress transfer theory and dynamic vulnerability from the concept of ductility capacity reduction. We combine both processes in the generic multi-risk framework where risk scenarios are simulated using a variant of the Markov chain Monte Carlo method. We apply the proposed approach to the thrust fault system of northern Italy, considering earthquakes with characteristic magnitudes in the range similar to[6, 6.5], different levels of tectonic loading (tau) over dot = {10(-4), 10(-3), 10(-2)} bar/year and a generic stock of fictitious low-rise buildings with different ductility capacities mu(Delta) = {2, 4, 6}. We describe the process' stochasticity by non-stationary Poisson earthquake probabilities and by binomial damage state probabilities. We find that earthquake clustering yields a tail fattening of the seismic risk curve, the effect of which is amplified by damage-dependent fragility due to clustering. The impact of clustering alone is in average more important than dynamic vulnerability, the spatial extent of the former phenomenon being greater than of the latter one.
We examined a relationship between rupture propagation directions and the distribution of fault strength by analyzing seismological data from the earthquake swarm on the Yamagata-Fukushima border, NE Japan. This earthquake swarm exhibits a distinct hypocenter migration behavior and was estimated to be triggered by upward fluid movement after the 2011 Tohoku-Oki earthquake. We utilized the dense nationwide seismic network in Japan to estimate apparent source time functions of > 1500 small earthquakes (M-JMA >= 2). We found clear directional dependences of the peak amplitude and the pulse-width in the apparent source time functions, suggesting the earthquake rupture directivity, for half of the earthquakes. Rupture directions mostly avoid the directions of the hypocenter migration. The difference between the microscopic and macroscopic propagations of rupture might be explained by the spatial variation in the fault strength affected by pore pressure along the fault; ruptures of each earthquake are hindered from developing toward the region with higher fault strength ahead of the pore-pressure front. Estimates of stress drop systematically increased on taking the effects of rupture directivity into account. We observed a temporal increase in stress drop from 3 MPa to 10 MPa during the pore-pressure migration.
The advancement of hardware and software technologies makes it possible to use smartphones or Internet of things for monitoring environments in realtime. In recent years, much effort has been made to develop a smartphone based earthquake early warning system, where low-cost acceleration sensors inside a smartphones are used for capturing earthquake signals. However, because a smartphone comes with a powerful CPU, spacious memory, and several sensors, it is waste of such resources to use it only for detecting earthquakes. Furthermore, because a smartphone is mostly in use during the daytime, the acquired data cannot be used for detecting earthquakes due to human activities. Therefore, in this article, we introduce a stand-alone device equipped with a low-cost acceleration sensor and least computing resources to detect earthquakes. To that end, we first select an appropriate acceleration sensor by assessing the performance and accuracy of four different sensors. Then, we design and develop an earthquake alert device. To detect earthquakes, we employ a simple machine learning technique which trains an earthquake detection model with daily motions, noise data recorded in buildings, and earthquakes recorded in the past. Furthermore, we evaluate the four acceleration sensors by recording two realistic earthquakes on a shake-table. In the experiments, the results show that the developed earthquake alert device can successfully detect earthquakes and send a warning message to nearby devices, thereby enabling proactive responses to earthquakes.
Shallow earthquakes frequently disturb the hydrological and mechanical state of the subsurface, with consequences for hazard and water management. Transient post-seismic hydrological behavior has been widely reported, suggesting that the recovery of material properties (relaxation) following ground shaking may impact groundwater fluctuations. However, the monitoring of seismic velocity variations associated with earthquake damage and hydrological variations are often done assuming that both effects are independent. In a field site prone to highly variable hydrological conditions, we disentangle the different forcing of the relative seismic velocity variations delta v retrieved from a small dense seismic array in Nepal in the aftermath of the 2015 M-w 7.8 Gorkha earthquake. We successfully model transient damage effects by introducing a universal relaxation function that contains a unique maximum relaxation timescale for the main shock and the aftershocks, independent of the ground shaking levels. Next, we remove the modeled velocity from the raw data and test whether the corresponding residuals agree with a background hydrological behavior we inferred from a previously calibrated groundwater model. The fitting of the delta v data with this model is improved when we introduce transient hydrological properties in the phase immediately following the main shock. This transient behavior, interpreted as an enhanced permeability in the shallow subsurface, lasts for similar to 6 months and is shorter than the damage relaxation (similar to 1 yr). Thus, we demonstrate the capability of seismic interferometry to deconvolve transient hydrological properties after earthquakes from non-linear mechanical recovery.
Moderate earthquakes (M-w > 5) with moment tensors (MTs) dominated by a vertical compensated-linear-vector-dipole (vertical-CLVD) component are often generated by dip slip along a curved ring-fault system at active volcanoes. However, relating their MTs to ring-fault parameters has been proved difficult. The objective of this study is to find a robust way of estimating some ring-fault parameters based on their MT solutions obtained from long-period seismic records. We first model the MTs of idealized ring-faulting and show that MT components representing the vertical-CLVD and vertical strike-slip mechanisms are resolvable by the deviatoric MT inversion using long-period seismic waves, whereas a component representing the vertical dip-slip mechanism is indeterminate owing to a shallow source depth. We then propose a new method for estimating the arc angle and orientation of ring-faulting using the two resolvable MT components. For validation, we study a vertical-CLVD earthquake that occurred during the 2005 volcanic activity at the Sierra Negra caldera, Galapagos Islands. The resolvable MT components are stably determined with long-period seismic waves, and our estimation of the ring-fault parameters is consistent with the ring-fault geometry identified by previous geodetic studies and field surveys. We also estimate ring-fault parameters of two earthquakes that took place during the 2018 activity at the caldera, revealing significant differences between the two earthquakes in terms of slip direction and location. These results show the usefulness of our method for estimating ring-fault parameters, enabling us to examine the kinematics and structures below active volcanoes with ring faults that are distributed globally.
Earthquakes may enhance the permeability of Earth's crust, but the mechanisms for such changes are not entirely clear. Recent studies have revealed a distinct coseismic response at large epicentral distances to great earthquakes (M >= 8.0) $(\mathrm{M}\ge 8.0)$ and at close distances to major earthquakes (7.9 >= M >= 7.0) $(7.9\ge \mathrm{M}\ge 7.0)$, where both the horizontal and vertical permeabilities increased by orders of magnitude and the increases stayed at the co-seismic level for many years, which cannot be explained by the existing models. To explain such prolong increases of the vertical permeability I propose a new mechanism, supported by laboratory and field observations of earthquake-triggered hydrogeologic processes, that great earthquakes may pressurize and liquefy groundwater systems and inject the liquefied sands into fractures to keep them open. The proposed mechanism is testable and implies prolonged upward migration of hot fluids from deep basins, which may be an important process for subsurface transport of heat and solutes and may also be useful to understand the safety of groundwater and the security of underground repositories.
We review changes in groundwater chemistry as precursory signs for earthquakes. In particular, we discuss pH, total dissolved solids (TDS), electrical conductivity, and dissolved gases in relation to their significance for earthquake prediction or forecasting. These parameters are widely believed to vary in response to seismic and pre-seismic activity. However, the same parameters also vary in response to non-seismic processes. The inability to reliably distinguish between changes caused by seismic or pre-seismic activities from changes caused by non-seismic activities has impeded progress in earthquake science. Short-term earthquake prediction is unlikely to be achieved, however, by pH, TDS, electrical conductivity, and dissolved gas measurements alone. On the other hand, the production of free hydroxyl radicals (aEuro cent OH), subsequent reactions such as formation of H2O2 and oxidation of As(III) to As(V) in groundwater, have distinctive precursory characteristics. This study deviates from the prevailing mechanical mantra. It addresses earthquake-related non-seismic mechanisms, but focused on the stress-induced electrification of rocks, the generation of positive hole charge carriers and their long-distance propagation through the rock column, plus on electrochemical processes at the rock-water interface.
2016 August 24: an intense earthquake hits central Italy. The area is more extended than ever in the recent Italian history, involving four Italian Regions: Lazio, Abruzzo, Marche and Umbria. The seismic sequence is intense and prolonged, continuing also in 2017. The present work aims at representing a cognitive and interpretative contribution to the surface evidences produced during the seismic crisis of central Italy, particularly referring to the numerous effects on the environment, both primary (superficial faulting) and secondary, related to shaking. Moreover, the vastness of the involved area suggests the need of approaching the reconstruction by following new criteria, set on the integration of technical scientific knowledge, socio-economic requirements and - above all prevention.
Introduction: In Lombok, three-large magnitude earthquakes occurred in July 2018 and caused major losses: 564 victims died, 1684 were injured, 445,343 people became refugees, and 215,628 houses were damaged. It damaged 408 health facilities, consisting of 89 public health centers, 13 hospitals, 174 auxiliary public health centers, 132 village health posts. Aim: The purpose of this study is to describe the anesthetic techniques that were used to treat earthquake victims. Methods: This study was a descriptive cross-sectional study that was conducted by collecting total sampling from all earthquake victims treated in the emergency room (ER) of the regional public hospital (RSUD NTB) on August 6th and 7th, 2018, and all victims who underwent surgery during August 5th-25th, 2018. The data that were collected were surgery type, anesthetic techniques, and anesthesia drugs that were used. Results: The results show that the highest number of patients were treated in the ER during the first seven days after the earthquake and that this number then decreased over several weeks. The majority of patients treated were trauma patients who needed orthopedic surgery. General anesthesia was more widely used than regional anesthesia, but the difference was not significant. The most commonly used regional anesthetic was lidocaine hyperbaric 75-100 mg and clonidine 30-50 mcg combination. Regional anesthesia techniques have better results in cases of lower limb injury, but it is difficult to be applied in earthquake victims who present with complex injuries and limited resources.
On Aug. 8, 2017, an M(S)7.0 earthquake struck Jiuzhaigou, a county of Sichuan province, China. A number of investigations and studies have been conducted, some of which involved local velocity models. However, the suitability of these models has not been properly addressed. Here we collect 11 already-existing models, including those used in studies of the 2017 M(S)7.0 Jiuzhaigou earthquake, choose 10 local stations surrounding the earthquake, and employ the same technique (TRIT) to relocate the hypocenter. And furthermore, we choose a more suitable model from the 11 already-existed models by analyzing the relocation process and the relocated results for reasonability. Finally, our conclusion is that the model Fang2018 is more suitable and the hypocenter parameters, 103.801 degrees E, 33.192 degrees N and 15.8 km for longitude, latitude and depth, respectively, and 2017-08-08 13: 19: 46.66 for its origin time, based on this model should be recommended for the 2017 M(S)7.0 Jiuzhaigou earthquake.
Preparatory mechanisms accompanying or leading to nucleation of larger earthquakes have been observed at both laboratory and field scales, but conditions favoring the occurrence of observable preparatory processes are still largely unknown. In particular, it remains a matter of debate why some earthquakes occur spontaneously without noticeable precursors as opposed to events that are preceded by an extended failure process. In this study, we have generated new high-resolution seismicity catalogs framing the occurrence of 20 M-L > 2.5 earthquakes at The Geysers geothermal field in California. To this end, a seismicity catalog of the 11 days framing each large event was created. We selected 20 sequences sampling different hypocentral depths and hydraulic conditions within the field. Seismic activity and magnitude frequency distributions displayed by the different earthquake sequences are correlated with their location within the reservoir. Sequences located in the northwestern part of the reservoir show overall increased seismic activity and low b values, while the southeastern part is dominated by decreased seismic activity and higher b values. Periods of high injection coincide with high b values and vice versa. These observations potentially reflect varying differential and mean stresses and damage of the reservoir rocks across the field. About 50% of analyzed sequences exhibit no change in seismicity rate in response to the large main event. However, we find complex waveforms at the onset of the main earthquake, suggesting that small ruptures spontaneously grow into or trigger larger events.
Earthquakes are one of the major unavoidable natural disasters. These are characterized by the recorded ground motion data at a particular location. In any real earthquake event, shaking repeatedly occur several times within a few hours or days. In view of lack of time between the occurrences of tremors, the rehabilitation of the structure often becomes impractical, and the structural damages get accumulated. Hence, it is imperative to assess the behavior of reinforced concrete (RC) buildings under repeated earthquakes to prevent a disaster. The current practices of earthquake-resistant design utilize only a single strongest earthquake input in the form of a response spectrum, corresponding to the seismic code of practice at the site location. Hence, this investigation is primarily focused on vulnerability assessment of three-dimensional RC building frames conformed to the Indian standard codes of practice under bi-directional single and repeated ground motions. Incremental dynamic analysis is carried out to assess the inelastic behavior of the structure in terms of maximum horizontal displacement, residual displacement, and maximum inter-story drift ratio for particular spectral accelerations. The results obtained in this investigation conclude that the collapse capacity of RC building under repeated earthquakes reduces significantly compared to that of the most severe single earthquake. This emphasizes the need to account for repeated earthquake forces during the design phase in order to build a seismic resilient structure.
Oklahoma's households have recently faced several thousand higher-probability but low-impact earthquakes induced by nearby shale gas development. This type of seismic activity is different from natural-occurring earthquakes, which are generally constituted by one, high-loss event. We investigate the mechanisms through which earthquakes may influence household perceptions of risk by modeling changes to property values in and out of seismically-active zones. We estimate that the induced earthquakes are spatially concentrated, which is partially influenced by governmental limits placed on natural gas production and wastewater injections. Additionally, we explore the underlying measure of earthquake intensity and identify its importance in modeling seismic impacts. Controlling for the stock-flow dynamics of seismicity through time, we estimate that Oklahoma County's cumulative experience of earthquakes led to a diminution of property values. The impacts are further exacerbated by risk-saliency effects, as reflected in declining values associated with nearby wastewater injections and natural gas production. Published by Elsevier B.V.
Although the studies for the prediction of earthquakes encourage people from time to time, it is generally considered that there has been no success in earthquake prediction. Studies in earthquake prediction, generally focus on the temporal interaction of earthquakes in certain regions. In this study, predictions are generated with using structural recurrent neural networks (SRNN), which deals with the temporal and spatial patterns of earthquakes as a whole. In 9 equal regions of Turkey within a month, whether there will be an earthquake of magnitude 4 or above is predicted with 0.72 accurracy and 0.74 average precision.
The seismicity for 35 natural caves in Thailand was investigated probabilistically in order to provide information on their potential earthquake situation. All values representing the earthquake activities within a 300-km radius and the seismic hazard level at each cave were clarified. Seismotectonically, 28 of the 35 caves are situated within previously proposed seismic source zones and most of the seismogenic faults nearby each cave is presently still active, as determined by seismicity and paleoseismological evidence. For the present-day seismicity, the Pla cave in northwest Thailand (situated 0.3 km from the Mae Hong Son-Tak fault) showed a comparatively high a-value (4.16) suggesting a high entire seismicity rate, but a relatively high b-value of 0.82. With respect to the b-value, which inversely represents the accumulated seismotectonic stress, the caves at Pha Puang, Lom-Wang, Naresuan and Fha Mue Daeng in the Central-North regions had a comparatively low b-value (< 0.5), indicating a high accumulated stress. Based on the recognized earthquake sources and the utilized strong ground-motion attenuation model, the seismic hazard analyses revealed that the caves at Daowadeung, Phra Thart and Lawa in Western Thailand were in the highest seismic hazard areas. This new study contributes to important information for geotourism (e.g. mitigation planning) and selecting/prioritizing speleoseismological investigation sites.
Two earthquake swarms, the Qianguo swarm and Ningjiang swarm, have been observed since 2013 in the Songyuan area, Jilin Province, China. Using the seismic data of broadband permanent and temporal stations that recorded a larger number of earthquakes in the two swarms, we analyze the distribution of aftershocks and the focal mechanisms of these earthquakes and investigate the stress field and faulting properties of the Songyuan area. The relocated hypocenters of the Qianguo earthquakes are distributed along a NNW direction at focal depths of 4-13 km, while the dominant distribution of relocated Ningjiang earthquakes is along a NE direction at depths of 8-16 km. The focal mechanism solutions of 36 earthquakes with M-L >= 3.6 demonstrate a combined strike-slip and thrust faulting mechanism with centroid depth concentrated at 3-7 km for the Qianguo swarm and a strike-slip mechanism with centroid depth at 5-7 km for the Ningjiang swarm. The full moment tensors of seven moderate-strong earthquakes show that these earthquakes contain a high percentage of non-double-couple components. The regional stress field is inverted using the focal mechanism parameters of the 36 earthquakes. In the Qianguo area, the horizontal maximum principal compressive stress (sigma(1)) is in the E-W direction with a dip angle of 14.1 degrees. In the Ningjiang area, the sigma(1) is in the ENE-WSW direction with a dip angle of 9.2 degrees. The sigma(1) directions of the two areas are slightly different, but both approximately along an E-W direction. The comprehensive results of this study show that the Qianguo swarm is likely caused by the movement of a buried fault in the NNW direction oblique to the Changling-Dashanzi fault, whereas the Fuyu-Zhaodong fault in the NE direction is responsible for the Ningjiang swarm. Both the Qianguo and Ningjiang swarms are probably closely related to the thrusting effect of the subduction of the Pacific Plate into the Northeast Asian continental margin and the complex geological conditions in the Songyuan area.
Historical data have demonstrated that earthquakes can happen any time of the day and night. Drills may help communities to better prepare for such emergencies. A cross-sectional survey was conducted from 4 October to 20 November 2017, in Mexico City. The sample size was 2400. The addressed research questions were what factors predict the likelihood that respondents would report that they agree on conducting mass evacuation drills: (a) any time of the day and (b) any time at night? The logistic regression technique was employed to identify the factors leading to the outcome. In relation to (a), five variables were significantly associated with the outcome, i.e., age, frequency of drills, warning time, knowledge on what to do, and perception vulnerability city. Regarding (b), five variables were also significantly associated with the outcome variable, i.e., age, level of education, frequency of drills, negative emotions, and fear of house/building collapsing. More generally, several drills should be conducted any time of the day and night; further, 50% of them should be announced and 50% unannounced. Furthermore, the time of earthquake drills should be randomly selected. In this way, we may just match the spatial-temporal dimension of an earthquake emergency. It is hoped that the findings will lead to better preparedness of the residents of the capital city during an earthquake occurrence.
Geological and geophysical observations reveal along-strike fault zone heterogeneity on major strike-slip faults, which can play a significant role in earthquake rupture propagation and termination. I present 2-D dynamic rupture simulations to demonstrate rupture characteristics in such heterogeneous fault zone structure. The modeled rupture is nucleated in a damaged fault zone and propagates on a preexisting fault toward the zone of intact rocks. There is an intermediate range of nucleation lengths that only allow rupture to spontaneously propagate in the damaged fault zone but not in a homogeneous medium given the same stresses and frictional parameters. Rupture with an intermediate nucleation length tends to stop when it reaches the zone of intact rocks for uniform fault stress conditions, especially when the rupture propagation distance in the damaged fault zone is relatively short and when the damaged fault zone is relatively narrow or smooth in the fault-normal direction. Pronounced small-scale heterogeneity within the damaged fault zone also contributes to such early rupture termination. In asymmetric fault zones bisected by a bimaterial fault, rupture moving in the direction of slip of faster rocks tends to terminate under the same conditions as in symmetric fault zones, whereas rupture moving in the direction of slip of slower rocks can penetrate into the zone of intact rocks. A sufficiently large asperity located at the edge of the zone of intact rocks also allows break-through rupture. The results suggest that the along-strike fault zone heterogeneity can play a critical role in seismicity distribution. Plain Language Summary Natural faults are surrounded by a zone of deformed rocks to accommodate strain localization. Such fault zone is not continuous along the fault, but rather includes segments of relatively damaged rocks adjacent to segments of relatively intact rocks. By simulating the dynamic interactions between fault stress, friction, and fault zone heterogeneities during the earthquake rupture process, I show that rupture is more likely to spontaneously propagate inside the damaged fault zone and stop when it reaches the relatively intact zone for uniform fault stress conditions. This phenomenon is less pronounced when the damaged fault zone becomes wider, sharper, and more damaged, indicating a higher likelihood of having large earthquakes that can penetrate into the relatively intact zone on more mature faults. The results suggest that a priori knowledge of the fault zone heterogeneity is critical for understanding the spatial distribution of earthquakes and the likelihood of having large earthquakes.
Lombok Island in Indonesia was hit by four major earthquakes (6.4 Mw to 7 Mw) and by at least 818 earthquakes between 29 July and 31 August 2018. The aims of this study are to measure ground deformation due to the 2018 Lombok earthquake series and to map its spatio-temporal distribution. The application of DinSAR was performed to produce an interferogram and deformation map. Time series Sentinel-1 satellite imageries were used as master and slave for each of these four major earthquakes. The spatio-temporal distribution of the ground deformation was analyzed using a zonal statistics algorithm in GIS. It focused on the overlapping area between the raster layer of the deformation map and the polygon layer of six observation sites (Mataram City, Pamenang, Tampes, Sukadana, Sembalun, and Belanting). The results showed that the deformation includes uplift and subsidence. The first 6.4 Mw foreshock hitting on 29 July 2018 produces a minimum uplift effect on the island. The 7.0 Mw mainshock on 5 August 2018 causes extreme uplift at the northern shore. The 6.2 Mw Aftershock on 9 August 2018 generates subsidence throughout the study area. The final earthquake of 6.9 Mw on 19 August 2018 initiates massive uplift in the study area and extreme uplift at the northeastern shore. The highest uplift reaches 0.713 m at the northern shore, while the deepest subsidence is measured -0.338 m at the northwestern shore. Dominant deformation on the northern area of Lombok Island indicates movement of Back Arc Trust in the north of the island. The output of this study would be valuable to local authorities to evaluate existing earthquake's impacts and to design mitigation strategies to face earthquake-induced ground displacement.
Many laboratory fault failure experiments are conducted as analogue of earthquakes, in which most of them are coupled with acoustic emission (AE) as a powerful diagnostic tool for investigating failure precursors. The purpose of this study is to predict time to the next failure in a laboratory fault failure experiment before failures happen based on the instantaneous recorded AE signals. A customized deep learning network comprising the convolutional neural network module and the recurrent neural network module is built and trained using raw AE data directly. No statistical characteristics or handmade features are extracted from raw data, avoiding any possible precursor information losses. More than 600 million AE data from a repetitive fault failure experiment are segmented as several thousand equilong sequences to form training and validation samples. The proposed network delivers satisfactory predicted results with the R2 value 0.55, much better than results using traditional earthquake catalogs method. Results of this study also demonstrate that our network does not prioritize those AE signals collected when failures impend, which is a common bias in traditional earthquake prediction methods. This study definitely holds the promise of using deep learning in earthquake prediction. Further studies are needed when analogous studies proceed to an industrial practice.
The nature of the high-speed rupture or the main shock of the Burridge-Knopoff spring-block model in two dimensions obeying the rate-and state-dependent friction law is studied by means of extensive computer simulations. It is found that the rupture propagation in larger events is highly anisotropic and irregular in shape on longer length scales, although the model is completely uniform and the emergent rupture-propagation velocity is nearly constant everywhere at the rupture front. The manner of the rupture propagation sometimes mimics the successive ruptures of neighbouring 'asperities' observed in real, large earthquakes. Large events tend to be unilateral, with its epicentre lying at the rim of its rupture zone. The epicentre site of a large event is also located next to the rim of the rupture zone of some past event. Event-size distributions are computed and discussed in comparison with those of the corresponding one-dimensional model. The magnitude distribution exhibits a power-law behaviour resembling the Gutenberg-Richter law for smaller magnitudes, which changes over to a more characteristic behaviour for larger magnitudes. For very large events, the rupture-length distribution exhibits mutually different behaviours in one dimension and in two dimensions, reflecting the difference in the underlying geometry. This article is part of the theme issue 'Statistical physics of fracture and earthquakes'.
Induced earthquakes from waste disposal operations in otherwise tectonically stable regions significantly increases seismic hazard. It remains unclear why injections induce large earthquakes on non-optimally oriented faults kilometers below the injection horizon, particularly since fluids are not injected under pressure, but rather poured, into the well as observed in the Milan, Kansas area. Here we propose a mechanism for induced earthquakes whereby the karstic lower Arbuckle provides the short-circuit that establishes a tens of MPa stepwise fluid pressure increase within the basement upon arrival of the hydraulic connection to the free surface and ultimately induce slip on the deeper fault. We investigate this scenario through modeling and mechanical analysis and show that earthquakes near Milan are likely induced by large (and sudden) fluid pressure changes when the karst network links two previously isolated hydrological systems.
China is an earthquake country. Earthquake prediction is one of the most challenging tasks in contemporary science. Professor Wang Ren has shown great insight and carried out pioneering work since the 1970s. The wiseness of his scientific ideas has been proved by progress in earthquake research in the past half a century. This article briefly reviews Professor Wang Ren's scientific thoughts and practice on earthquake prediction, as well as the outstanding developments of these ideas in recent years, and looks forward to the future development prospects of earthquake numerical prediction driven by physical models through high-performance computing and by big data through advanced machine learning.
In a post-earthquake scenario, the semantic enrichment of 3D building models with seismic damage is crucial from the perspective of disaster management. This paper aims to present the methodology and the results for the Level of Detail 3 (LOD3) building modelling (after an earthquake) with the enrichment of the semantics of the seismic damage based on the European Macroseismic Scale (EMS-98). The study area is the Vrisa traditional settlement on the island of Lesvos, Greece, which was affected by a devastating earthquake of Mw = 6.3 on 12 June 2017. The applied methodology consists of the following steps: (a) unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) nadir and oblique images are acquired and photogrammetrically processed for 3D point cloud generation, (b) 3D building models are created based on 3D point clouds and (c) 3D building models are transformed into a LOD3 City Geography Markup Language (CityGML) standard with enriched semantics of the related seismic damage of every part of the building (walls, roof, etc.). The results show that in following this methodology, CityGML LOD3 models can be generated and enriched with buildings' seismic damage. These models can assist in the decision-making process during the recovery phase of a settlement as well as be the basis for its monitoring over time. Finally, these models can contribute to the estimation of the reconstruction cost of the buildings.
Several laboratory experimental studies of photoemission characteristics of rocks as they fracture have been conducted to elucidate the mechanism of earthquake lightning (EQL). In most of these studies, granite, which exhibits remarkable photoemission, is widely used to explain the mechanism attributed to the exoelectron emission effect or piezo-induced effect of quartz, a constituent mineral of granite. Photoemission induced by rock fracturing has been observed prominently during landslides caused by earthquakes. According to the literature on historical earthquakes, landslide-induced EQL was witnessed even at locations where quartz was not present. In this study, we therefore studied the physicochemical characteristics of photoemissions associated with impact shear fractures in various rocks, selected based on historical earthquake records of landslide EQL. As a result, we could highlight various physicochemical processes associated with the frictional heating generated during shear impacts between rocks.
After the Zagreb earthquakes in March 2020, around 25,000 buildings were estimated damaged, most of them being in the historic city center. This fact is not that surprising since most of the city center buildings are unreinforced masonry structures that have not been assessed in quite some time and usually no retrofitting methods were ever applied. The rapid post-disaster assessment began the same day after the first earthquake occurred. Through mostly visual assessment methods, the basic idea is to identify the safety and usability of buildings in general. This type of assessment was also conducted in one of the oldest Croatian cultural institutions, Matica Hrvatska. It is a building of great historical significance and cultural value, as is most of the city center. Accordingly, this building was constructed with no consideration given to seismic events and with the use of traditional materials and building techniques. In the scope of this paper, urgent actions that were taken are shown with problems and challenges that occurred. Furthermore, the decision-making process after an earthquake is elaborated. In addition, a numerical model is developed in 3Muri software for structural modeling. A non-linear static pushover analysis is performed, and possible failure mechanisms are examined. Furthermore, real-life damage is compared to the software results, and a conclusion process of the building's usability is explained. In the end, the results obtained are analyzed and conclusions regarding the efficiency of the used software are drawn.
Public Participation (in earthquake monitoring and forecast) and Public Preparedness (for seismic disaster risk reduction), or P-4, is one of the interesting, and often underestimated approach to earthquake forecast. In the era of big data, this community/public approach faces new challenges and new opportunities and may contribute to earthquake science. Taking China as an example, and focusing on earthquake forecasts. This article reviews some of the key issues currently under discussion. It seems that new developments make it possible to foster a 'version 2.0' of P-4, empowered by information technology.
Borehole strainmeters that are installed deeply into bedrock are capable of recording both continuous stress and strain measurements, and have consequently become an important tool for monitoring crustal deformation. A YRY-4 borehole strainmeter installed at the Guza Station recorded anomalous changes in borehole strain data preceding the Wenchuan earthquake on May 12, 2008 (UTC) (=8.0). We apply principal component analysis (PGA) to analyze borehole strain data from the Guza Station. The first principal component eigenvalues and eigenvectors are calculated. The fitted results of the cumulative number of anomalous eigenvalues demonstrate that an acceleration occurred approximately 4 months before the earthquake (from January 2008). The results of the combined eigenvalue and eigenvector analyses show that the spatial distribution of eigenvectors and accelerated occurrence of eigenvalue anomalies represents the stress evolution characteristics of the fault from a steady state to a sub-instability state in rock experiments. We tentatively infer that this process may also be linked to the preparation phase of a large earthquake.
An earthquake in the Jiuzhaigou area caused numerous secondary disasters, such as rolling stones, land collapse, landslides and debris flow, which badly affected the safety of human settlements and influenced the spatial layout of the post-disaster reconstruction. Therefore, carrying out assessments of land and identifying a suitable zone for human habitats were very important. This research creates the territorial suitability assessment and function zoning conceptual model in the earthquake-stricken area, and the new methods of the territorial suitability evaluation system were used to divide the spatial functional zones of the earthquake stricken area, which provide a theoretical guidance and decision-making basis for the reconstruction of the disaster area. The results showed that: (1) The Jiuzhaigou earthquake-stricken area comprises of an ecological area that has a high level of importance to the ecosystem. In the earthquake-stricken area, 65% of national land is at an altitude of 3000-4000 m, and therefore not suitable for a high level of intensive reconstruction, but reconstructed in an eco-friendly manner. (2) The zone suitable for reconstruction comprises mainly of the river valley and the flat terrain of western parts. The land with low suitability is mainly located on steep terrain, such as high mountains and low gullies. The geographic and geomorphic conditions limit the spread of a suitable reconstruction zone. (3) The earthquake-stricken area mainly comprises of a tourism industry gathering area, population gathering area, agriculture and animal husbandry development area, and ecological preservation area with areas of 76 km(2), 44 km(2), 1591 km(2) and 7512 km(2), respectively. Scientifically zoning the reconstruction areas using scientific evaluation may provide guidance for the location of reconstruction sites.
On 4 January 1907, an earthquake occurred off the west coast of Sumatra, Indonesia, with an instrumental surface-wave magnitude (M-S) in the range of 7.5-8.0 at periods of40s. The tsunami it generated was destructive on the islands of Nias and Simeulue, where it killed hundreds and gave rise to the legend of the S'mong. This tsunami was also observed in other parts of the Indian Ocean basin. Relative to its instrumented magnitude, the size of the tsunami was anomalous, qualifying the event as a tsunami earthquake. However, unusually for a tsunami earthquake, the shaking on Nias was severe (7 EMS). We revisit the 1907 earthquake with a multidisciplinary approach by extracting evidence describing shaking effects or the tsunami from written documents and by acquiring new seismograms. Combining these, we discriminate two large earthquakes within an hour of each other with clear differences in seismological character. The first we interpret to be a tsunami earthquake with characteristic low levels of shaking, an estimated average seismic moment (M-0) of 2.5x10(28) dyncm (M-W approximate to 8.2) in the frequency band 6-8mHz, and an epicentral location close to the front of the Sunda Megathrust. The seismograms we analyzed also document a regular growth of moment with period, approaching M-W approximate to 8.4 at the longest resolvable period (170s). For the second earthquake that caused damage on Nias, we estimate M-S approximate to 7 based on seismograms and phase data. We also identify two M-S approximate to 6 aftershocks within 24h of the mainshock. Additionally, we present a dataset of 88 locations within the Indian Ocean basin where the tsunami was observed. Using a subset of these, we forward modeled the tsunami to propose a seismic rupture model extending along the Sunda Megathrust for about 220km (94.7 degrees E to 97 degrees E) with a maximum modeled slip of 21m. Our new rupture model provides an acceptable fit to our new dataset of tsunami runup and inundation values from 88 local and far-field locations in the Indian Ocean basin. We also urge caution against an over-reliance on the S'mong legend for tsunami evacuation as its premise, that a tsunami will only follow an earthquake with very severe ground motions, is rendered ineffective for tsunami earthquakes.
ObjectiveThe needs of people with disabilities are not taken into account during disasters, and there is no or little preparation for them. Hence, such people are very anxious about their personal safety during disasters. The aim of this study was to explain the safety needs of people with disabilities during earthquakes.MethodsThis qualitative study was conducted with purposive sampling. A total of 12 people with movement disability, aged between 18 and 60 years, and with an experience of facing earthquakes, participated in semi-structured interviews. Thematic analysis was used.ResultsThe safety needs of people with disabilities were categorized into three phases: those before an earthquake were considering building codes and resistant construction, building safe and resistant-to-climate-change shelters, and securing the room at the home and workplace; that during an earthquake was the existence of personal protection facilities; and those after an earthquake were adaptation of bathrooms in secure areas, prioritizing conex containers instead of tents, and sheltering in a safe and vermin-free area.ConclusionsThe sudden death of people with disabilities during disasters is preventable through proper planning and preparedness of emergency personnel. Hence, identifying the safety needs of these people and inclusion of such plans in disasters management systems can assure safety for people with disabilities during disasters. (Disaster Med Public Health Preparedness. 2018;12:615-621)
The Groningen gas reservoir, situated in the northeast of the Netherlands, is western Europe's largest producing gas field and has been in production since 1963. The gas production has induced both subsidence and seismicity. Seismicity is detected and located using the Konin-klijk Nederlands Meteorologisch Instituut shallow-borehole array for the period 2015-2017, incorporating the back projection techniques of QuakeMigrate and the nonlinear location procedure to constrain earthquake locations and depths. The uncertainties on the estimated depths are estimated taking into account velocity model, changes in station array geometry and uncertainties in the measurement of arrival times of the P and S waves. We show that the depth distribution of seismicity is consistent with nucleation within the reservoir (28 per cent) or in the overburden (60 per cent) within similar to 500m from the top of the reservoir. Earthquakes with hypocentres in the overburden likely originate from overlying Zechstein anhydrite caprock. Based on their depth distribution, it seems like the earthquakes are primarily driven by the elastic strain in the reservoir and overburden, induced by the reservoir compaction. We estimate the probability of earthquakes nucleating beneath the reservoir in the underlying Carboniferous limestone and basement, to be no more than 12 per cent.
Batubesi Dam which is located in Sorowako region in the middle part of Sulawesi island had been designed with seismic coefficient about 0.20g. The region constitutes an active earthquake zone with the recurrence frequency and magnitude of the earthquake are relatively high. The region is located on and active fault zone due to lateral fault movement (strike-slip) of Matano fault, Palukoro fault, and Walanea fault that categorized as shallow crustal earthquakes. To recognize characteristic of the earthquake at the site of interest, the historical earthquakes (background) data surrounding the study area and local microtremor measurements data are analyzed by means of a probabilistic seismic hazard analysis (PSHA) and deterministic seismic hazard analysis (DSHA) using some ground-motion models in attenuation relationship equations in resulting of seismic hazard parameter as represented by peak ground acceleration (PGA) values in earthquake scenario at operating basis earthquake (OBE), maximum design earthquake (MDE), and maximum credible earthquake (MCE) conditions. The PGA value in OBE condition is about 0.35g, in MDE about 0.45g, and in MCE about 0.49g. These values are used as reference to evaluate compliance of the current technical aspects with the new required design facing the updated seismicity parameters.
The literature on the effect of shocks on civil conflicts has grown rapidly over the last decade. In this paper, we study the relationship between earthquakes and terrorism. In the short run, the destruction generated by a medium-range earthquake reduces the opportunity cost of rebelling against the government. Since destruction of infrastructures in these cases is limited, the state keeps most of its coercive capacity, which reduces the chances of full-fledged conflict but leaves open the possibility of low intensity rebellious acts such as terrorism. In the medium run the destruction of tangible assets can lead to the closing down of weak firms, the introduction of new technologies, the improvement of productivity and the increase in wealth inequality We propose a new algorithm to classify terrorism events as domestic or transnational, and show that the likelihood of a domestic terrorist event increases with the previous occurrence of an earthquake. Using earthquakes as an instrument for income, we also show that development has a positive and significant effect on the likelihood of terrorist events.
In this paper, the rapid assessment method of casualties in earthquake disasters is studied and a casualty assessment model based on coupling factors is established from the perspective of factors affecting casualties in earthquake disasters. Taking Guangdong area as an example, the spatialization and quantification of casualty coupling factors in earthquake disasters are analyzed in detail. A software system is developed based on ARC Engine 10.1 platform. For the same earthquake case, different algorithms (algorithm model based on coupling factor and algorithm model based on building seismic vulnerability) are used to calculate the number of casualties in order to compare research results.
Phase alignment (synchronization) is a generalized property of interacting oscillators. If such interactions apply to earthquakes, they should manifest as time-dependent variations in earthquake productivity organized according to a characteristic elastic loading period. Defining this period as renewal interval, the time required to accumulate the elastic potential energy released in a rupture, gives a consistent scaling property that can be used to search for temporal organization. We test for the expected structure in earthquake productivity using three different statistical tools optimized for different temporal sensitivities: Schuster spectra for events with short renewal intervals (0-25 years), Fourier power spectra for events with short and intermediate renewal intervals (0-100 years), and topological data analysis (TDA) for events with long renewal intervals (>100 years). All three indicate that earthquakes are organized in time according to renewal interval. Accounting for such unsteady temporal organization may improve forecasting skill by providing time-dependent event probabilities. Plain Language Summary Earthquakes can be thought of as elastic objects that store potential energy as they are loaded over time by tectonics and then release that stored energy during rupture. This loading and unloading cycle defines a characteristic timescale for an earthquake, its renewal interval. Generalized systems of many objects of this type are known to have nonlinear interactions over many cycles of loading and unloading that lead to patterns of events in time, such that events with similar natural periods become synchronized. We test for these interactions in earthquakes by sorting the global earthquake catalog by renewal interval and then testing whether events with similar renewal intervals tend to occur closer together in time than would be expected for independent event occurrence.
We evaluate the seismotectonic setting in the Upper Assam and Arunachal/Bhutan segments to obtain a critical understanding of the 1950 earthquake, and its predecessors. The paleoseismological findings from the region inform that among the earthquakes prior to 1950, the one that occurred either in 1697 or in 1714, may belong to the class of a major earthquake (M-8), and it may have activated part of the Bhutan-Arunachal segment. The Assamese historical reports are much vocal on the effects of the 1697 earthquake (known as the Sadiya earthquake) in the Upper Assam Valley than that of the 1714 event. The evidence provides more credence to the 1697 event that may tentatively be given the status of a major earthquake in the Upper Brahmaputra region, and the 1714 event appears to be more of a Bhutan-specific event. The geological record indicates that the great Upper Assam earthquake of 1950 does not have any predecessors mimicking its magnitude nor the projected complex style of rupture at least during the last 1000 years or may be more. The question is whether the 1950-type earthquake involving two orthogonal structures with variable strain accumulation is kinematically a repeatable activity. The 1697 earthquake with a likely magnitude (Mw) of >8 must have ruptured the eastern-most part of the Arunachal frontal thrust. The records from the Assam Valley do not conclusively establish the evidence of any major impact in the Brahmaputra Valley, commensurating with a magnitude >8.0 assigned to the 1714 event sourced in the Bhutan segment.
Dynamic earthquake sequence simulation is an important tool for investigating the behavior of a fault that hosts a series of earthquakes because it solves all interrelated stages in the earthquake cycle consistently, including nucleation, propagation and arrest of dynamic rupture, afterslip, locking, and interseismic stress accumulation. Numerically simulating and resolving these phenomena, which have different time and length scales, in a single framework is challenging. A spectral boundary integral equation method (SBIEM) that makes use of a fast Fourier transform is widely used because it reduces required computational costs, even though it can only be used for a planar fault. The conventional SBIEM has a periodic boundary condition as a result of the discretization of the wavenumber domain with a regular mesh; thus, to obtain an approximate solution for a fault in an infinite medium, it has been necessary to simulate a region much longer than the source distribution. Here, I propose a new SBIEM that is free from this artificial periodic boundary condition. In the proposed method, the periodic boundaries are removed by using a previously proposed method for the simulation of dynamic rupture. The integration kernel for the elastostatic effect, which reaches infinitely far from the source, is expressed analytically and replaces the one in the conventional SBIEM. The new method requires simulation of a region only twice as long as the source distribution, so the computational costs are significantly less than those required by the conventional SBIEM to simulate a fault in an infinite medium. The effect of the distance lambda between the artificial periodic boundaries was investigated by comparing solutions for a typical problem setting between the conventional and proposed SBIEM. The result showed that the artificial periodic boundaries cause overestimation of the recurrence interval that is proportional to lambda(-2). If lambda is four times the fault length, the interval is overestimated by less than 1%. Thus, the artificial periodic boundaries have only a modest effect on the conclusions of previous studies.
An earthquake with a magnitude of M-w = 6.8 and a depth of approximately 8.06 km occurred on January 24, 2020, with the epicenter near the town of Sivrice in Elazig province, Turkey. The earthquake resulted in numerous collapses and severe structural damage to the buildings located in the downtowns and villages of Elazig and Malatya provinces. A technical team investigated the earthquake-affected areas, and this study presents their observations and findings with respect to reinforced concrete buildings. It was concluded that almost all of the collapsed or severely-damaged reinforced concrete buildings were constructed between 1975 and 1998. The design and construction of these buildings did not comply with the specifications of the Turkish earthquake codes valid at that time. The failures and severe damage of the buildings are associated with poor material quality, inadequate reinforcement configuration, and framing problems related to their lateral load-carrying systems. Therefore, it is recommended that buildings constructed between 1975 and 1998 in the region be structurally re-evaluated to avoid additional loss of life and property in future earthquakes. (C) 2021 American Society of Civil Engineers.
It is widely accepted that earthquake poses many challenges to human life. Therefore, the main objective of this study was to explore challenges and problems facing the 2017 Kermanshah earthquake survivors. The present qualitative study was conducted using conventional qualitative content analysis in Kermanshah Province, Iran, in 2018. The data were collected through semi-structured interviews with 28 earthquake-stricken individuals, aged over 18 years, selected through purposive sampling method. The Graneheim and Lundman method was also used to analyze the data, and then Lincoln and Guba criteria were employed to provide robustness and transferability of the research. The results of data analysis were classified into 4 main categories and 11 sub-categories. Accordingly, the main categories were: (1) health problems and issues, (2) economic problems and issues, (3) improper management of human and non-human resources, and (4) incomplete social services. According to the results, earthquake victims face many challenges. Therefore, fundamental steps can be taken to reduce survivors' problems by considering all aspects of their health, improving equal distribution of social assistance and services provided, and using local social capital in a better way.
With the continuous development of human society, earthquakes are becoming more and more dangerous to the production and life of human society. Researchers continue to try to predict earthquakes, but the results are still not significant. With the development of data science, sensing and communication technologies, there are increasing efforts to use machine learning methods to predict earthquakes. Our work raises a method that applies big data analysis and machine learning algorithms to earthquakes prediction. All data are accumulated by the Acoustic and Electromagnetic Testing All in One System (AETA). We propose the multi-station Principal Component Analysis (PCA) algorithm and extract features based on this method. At last, we propose a weekly-scale earthquake prediction model, which has a 60% accuracy using LightGBM (LGB).
Most current structural fire codes focus on achieving prescribed fire ratings, which are based on standard fire tests with minor relevance to what is required for fire safety. These prescriptive design approaches do not provide sufficient information regarding the performance of structural members or systems under elevated temperatures. Furthermore, the limited structural design provisions provide no indication of the level of reliability of structures since comprehensive treatment of the uncertainties associated with the hazard is not considered. It is therefore imperative to move towards performance-based engineering not only to quantify structural reliability for given performance objectives but also to ensure more economic and safe design. This paper provides details on the development of a new analysis framework for probabilistic performance-based analysis of a fire following an earthquake. The framework is then utilized to develop fragilities of steel structural members and systems subjected to cascading hazards of earthquake and fire while considering buckling of columns as the damage limit state. Uncertainties associated with fire hazard, passive fire protection, gravity load, and earthquake intensity are accounted for in the framework. The proposed performance-based approach for the analysis of a fire following an earthquake can be considered an extension of the Pacific Earthquake Engineering Research (PEER) performance-based earthquake engineering framework and used by engineers to assess structural performance under the multiple hazards.
In the case of the 2011 off the Pacific Coast of Tohoku Earthquake, both a statistical model and an economic model are employed to measure the short-term reaction on different levels from the whole market to individual stocks. The abnormal returns from these two types of models are tested by parametric and nonparametric methods. The results from two types of models are similar. For the whole Japanese stock market, the negative reaction returns to the normal level till 5-10 days after the event; for 33 sectors, those directly and secondly destroyed ones react negatively, those slightly destroyed ones can restore in 3-5 days, and construction is the only sector reacts positively; for individual stocks, the negative reaction is from directly and secondly destroyed entities and the positive reaction is mainly from those with huge demand in recovery, most of them locate in the areas with JMA intensity high than 5+, where the distribution of the principal executive offices with negative reaction is around the epicenter, and that with positive reaction is farther.
Maximum depths of earthquakes in different settings are commonly thought to lie within a transition, many kilometers in width, from brittle deformation at shallow depths to plastic deformation by high-temperature creep at greater depth. A review of temperatures and strain rates, both of which are low in intraplate settings, shows faster deformation in warmer tectonically active regions and highest strain rates in regions where the movement of magma affects strain rates and temperatures are especially high. Although intraplate earthquakes appear to occur in oceanic lithosphere only where colder than similar to 600 degrees C, in tectonically active regions, where strain rates are several orders of magnitude higher than intraplate settings, earthquakes occur where temperatures exceed 600 degrees C and perhaps 800 degrees C. The temperature cutoff increases by similar to 100 degrees C as strain rates increase by similar to 2 to 2.5 orders of magnitude. Nowhere, however, do any two of average strain rates, background stresses, and temperatures seem to be determined well enough that, when combined with laboratory-based flow laws for high-temperature creep, they can place a tight constraint on the third of these quantities. At the same time, the pattern of higher temperatures at higher strain rates follows the general forms of power law and Peierls creep that are appropriate for lithospheric conditions.
Based on manually analyzed waveforms recorded by the permanent Ecuadorian network and our large aftershock deployment installed after the Pedernales earthquake, we derive three-dimensional Vp and Vp/Vs structures and earthquake locations for central coastal Ecuador using local earthquake tomography. Images highlight the features in the subducting and overriding plates down to 35 km depth. Vp anomalies (similar to 4.5-7.5 km/s) show the roughness of the incoming oceanic crust (OC). Vp/Vs varies from similar to 1.75 to similar to 1.94, averaging a value of 1.82 consistent with terranes of oceanic nature. We identify a low Vp (similar to 5.5 km/s) region extending along strike, in the marine forearc. To the North, we relate this low Vp and Vp/Vs (<1.80) region to a subducted seamount that might be part of the Carnegie Ridge (CR). To the South, the low Vp region is associated with high Vp/Vs (>1.85) which we interpret as deeply fractured, probably hydrated OC caused by the CR being subducted. These features play an important role in controlling the seismic behavior of the margin. While subducted seamounts might contribute to the nucleation of intermediate megathrust earthquakes in the northern segment, the CR seems to be the main feature controlling the seismicity in the region by promoting creeping and slow slip events offshore that can be linked to the updip limit of large megathrust earthquakes in the northern segment and the absence of them in the southern region over the instrumental period.
This study examined the impact of social capital on disaster recovery in the 2008 earthquake-stricken rural communities in Wenchuan, China. The results show that quake-affected households having more social capital recovered more easily and quickly from disasters. A larger network significantly increased the amount of government aid received for housing reconstruction. This indicates that network members assist the quake-affected households to apply for and obtain government aid. These findings imply that social capital, as a kind of non-institutionalized social force, facilitates earthquake-affected households' recovery from disaster in rural China. Based on these results, this study suggests that policymakers should pay special attention to improving the social capital of existing local households to improve disaster recovery.
Decision making to mitigate the effects of natural hazards, such as earthquakes, has always been a challenging subject. This is particularly the case in periods of increased seismicity (e.g. in a foreshock or aftershock period of a major earthquake) when the population is anxious and would like advice but when the chance of potentially damaging earthquake ground motions in the coming days remains low. In this study, a decision-making method based on multiple criteria is combined with cost-benefit analyses to create a hybrid decision-making framework to help decide amongst potential loss mitigation actions (or even to take no action). The proposed framework is demonstrated for three hypothetical case studies using Patras (Greece) as an example of a high seismicity location. The results show that the proposed approach is flexible enough to adapt to new problems, end-users and stakeholders. Additionally, it is revealed that reasonable mitigation actions are viable and financially beneficial during periods of increased seismic hazard in order to reduce the potential consequences of earthquakes. Finally, the case studies show that the results can be highly sensitive to the inputs to the framework and hence it is vital to involve end users to help constrain these inputs when making such calculations.
Due to complex 3-D heterogeneous structures, conventional 1-D analysis techniques using onshore seismograms can yield incorrect estimation of earthquake source parameters, especially dip angles and centroid depths of offshore earthquakes. Combining long-term onshore seismic observations and numerical simulations of seismic wave propagation in a 3-D model, we conducted centroid moment tensor (CMT) inversions of earthquakes along the Nankai Trough between April 2004 and August 2019 to evaluate decade-scale seismicity. Green's functions for CMT inversions of earthquakes with moment magnitudes of 4.3-6.5 were evaluated using finite-difference method simulations of seismic wave propagation in the regional 3-D velocity structure model. Significant differences of focal mechanisms and centroid depths between previous 1-D and our 3-D catalogues were found in the solutions of offshore earthquakes. By introducing the 3-D structures of the low-velocity accretionary prism and the Philippine Sea Plate, dip angles and centroid depths for offshore earthquakes were well-constrained. Teleseismic CMT also provides robust solutions, but our regional 3-D CMT could provide better constraints of dip angles. Our 3-D CMT catalogue and published slow earthquake catalogues depicted spatial distributions of slip behaviours on the plate boundary along the Nankai Trough. The regular and slow interplate earthquakes were separately distributed, with these distributions reflecting the heterogeneous distribution of effective strengths along the Nankai Trough plate boundary. By comparing the spatial distribution of seismic slip on the plate boundary with the slip-deficit rate distribution, regions with strong coupling were clearly identified.
Construction of reservoirs is known to have risks in triggering earthquakes. These reservoir-triggered earthquakes (RTE) are transitory phenomena which may feature a delay to occur, depending on the geology and geotechnical properties. RTE pose threats to buildings, and yet is remained at a research level in view of the normally unsuccessful prediction for duration of when and how long the vicinity of reservoir will experience RTE. Due to concern raised by public, interested parties and the Minister of Works on possibility of RTE as a result of the construction of Bakun Dam and future dams in Sarawak, a short communication paper crafted by the Institution of Engineers Malaysia (IEM) Earthquake Committee, consulted by the international advisory group, was submitted to the Work Ministry. This paper replicates part of the short communication discussing on potential issues faced on RTE in Malaysia and put a focus on the recommendations of a minimum seismic loading in building design codes (i.e. peak ground acceleration of 0.07 g on rock), for a baseline protection, rather than just relying on the insufficient recorded data in limited years for lower seismicity area, for example like Peninsular Malaysia and Sarawak.
We combine aftershock relocations, source mechanisms, teleseismic P wave backprojection, and Global Positioning System data inversion to constrain complex faulting geometry of the 2018 M-W 7.9 offshore Kodiak earthquake. Relocated aftershocks delineate several N-S trends including a prominent 110-km-long segment, as well as broad NE-SW trends. Global Positioning System modeling and backprojection indicate that the NE-SW trending left-lateral strike-slip segments released most energy dominating far-field crustal deformation and radiated wavefield. Backprojection infers fast E-to-W rupture propagations superimposed on a slower S-to-N migration. We propose a five-segment model of the rupture that was partially driven by dynamic triggering. Plain Language Summary In the early morning hours of 23 January 2018, a magnitude 7.9 earthquake struck similar to 300 km offshore Kodiak Island, Alaska, in the outer rise region of the Alaska-Aleutian subduction zone. While the moment tensor for the earthquake suggests predominantly strike-slip faulting, the true complexity of the source has only become evident through analysis of multiple data sets (aftershock locations and source mechanisms, Global Positioning System deformation, and teleseismic P wave backprojection). Our analysis indicates simultaneous rupture on a system of N-S and NE-SW oriented conjugate faults. The N-S faults correlate with plate bending faults imaged by seismic imaging and high-definition bathymetry. The NE-SW faulting trends do not coincide with locations of oceanic plate fractures but correlate with orientations of fault planes of previously recoded earthquakes in the area. Rupture propagation during the earthquake did not follow a continuous path and was partially driven by dynamic and static stress triggering. The modeling results indicate that left-lateral strike-slip segments released most energy thus dominating the radiated wavefield and the resulting crustal deformation. The Mw 7.9 offshore Kodiak earthquake is another example of a complex rupture of the oceanic lithosphere.
The effects of framing are important to the perception of earthquake risk. This research investigated the effects of framing on the people's perception of earthquake risk in Chiang Rai, Thailand. There were three frames conveying the same earthquake risk but presented in different terms. These statements were in frequency terms of building damage: 475 severely damaged private buildings in 500 years, 10% chance of occurrence in 50 years, and one severely damaged private building per year. The objective of this research was to determine whether framing the same earthquake risk in different terms led to different perceptions of the risk by different people, leading to 1. what would be the most effective framing type regarding severely damaged private buildings, 2. which affected people's earthquake risk perception most, and 3. whether experiencing an earthquake disaster would change the risk perception of the residents. The result showed that presenting the risk as one severely damaged private building per year was the most commonly selected among the three frames and was statistically significant. This finding clarifies that short time frames influence people's earthquake risk decisions, and agencies can effectively use framing to communicate the earthquake risk to people in seismic regions to stimulate their earthquake preparedness and to reduce future earthquake risk. However, earthquake experience does not change the risk perception of the residents.
Indonesia is located at the joint situation of four major world tectonic plates in the Pacific Ring of Fire. Mostly, the coastal regions of Indonesia are highly prone to several natural hazards, such as tsunamis, earthquakes, and volcanic activity. The major earthquake incident in the country was the 2004 earthquake in Aceh, whereas a major volcanic eruption was the Mount Merapi volcanic eruption in 2010. With the present advancement of knowledge regarding the existing hazards, we acknowledge the importance of vulnerability and risk in monitoring and mitigating earthquake hazards. However, to date, a specific effort is unavailable for assessing the risk of earthquake hazards that will cover the city-level in Indonesia. Moreover, a comprehensive profile for risk assessment has yet to be created for small-scale urban areas. Few studies have been organized in Indonesia on city-scale risk assessment. Therefore, we attempt to fill this gap by calculating the risk percentage of Banda Aceh City by determining its conditioning factors and analyzing its variations spatially. We used an influence diagram approach and considered all the factors that affect the risk in Banda Aceh. Results show that only the central parts and some parts in the surrounding areas are under high risk compared with other locations. We validated the results using inventory earthquake events and the results of previously published articles.
Source time functions (STFs) describe how the seismic moment rate is released with time, and carry information on integral rupture properties, such as static stress drop and radiated energy. In this study, we systematically analyze a set of 1,433 STFs extracted from the SCARDEC method (Vallee and Douet, 2016, ), containing the M(w)5.6, shallow (z70km) earthquakes with dip-slip mechanism that occurred between 1992 and 2014. At the global scale, STFs properties indicate scale invariance of stress drop and scaled radiated energy with magnitude. In a second step, these source parameters are investigated in light of the tectonic context of the earthquakes: in agreement with other approaches, we observe that subduction interface earthquakes have lower stress drop and scaled radiated energy relative to all other earthquakes (e.g., crustal earthquakes). Finally, a focus on subduction interface earthquakes (approximately 800 earthquakes) is done by considering 18 regional segments of subduction zones. We find that these segments do not have the same signature in terms of macroscopic rupture properties, which means that large-scale plate convergence and mechanical properties influence rupture behavior. In a given segment, local heterogeneities of stress drop or radiated energy can be associated with local features of the subduction zone: in particular, we find that low coupled zones generate earthquakes with low stress drop and scaled radiated energy. This last feature, also observed at a larger scale, suggests a positive correlation between coupling and stress drop.
At GMT time 13:19, August 8, 2017, an M (s)7.0 earthquake struck the Jiuzhaigou region in Sichuan Province, China, causing severe damages and casualties. To investigate the source properties, seismogenic structures, and seismic hazards, we systematically analyzed the tectonic environment, crustal velocity structure in the source region, source parameters and rupture process, Coulomb failure stress changes, and 3-D features of the rupture plane of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake. Our results indicate the following: (1) The Jiuzhaigou earthquake occurred on an unmarked fault belonging to the transition zone of the east Kunlun fault system and is located northwest of the Huya fault. (2) Both the mainshock and aftershock rupture zones are located in a region where crustal seismic velocity changes dramatically. Southeast to the source region, shear wave velocity at the middle to lower crust is significantly low, but it rapidly increases northeastward and lies close to the background velocity across the rupture fault. (3) The aftershock zone is narrow and distributes along the northwest-southeast trend, and most aftershocks occur within a depth range of 5-20 km. (4) The focal mechanism of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake indicates a left-lateral strike-slip fault, with strike, dip, and rake angles of 152A degrees, 74A degrees and 8A degrees, respectively. The hypocenter depth measures 20 km, whereas the centroid depth is about 6 km. The co-seismic rupture mainly concentrates at depths of 3-13 km, with a moment magnitude (M (w)) of 6.5. (5) The co-seismic rupture also strengthens the Coulomb failure stress at the two ends of the rupture fault and the east segment of the Tazang fault. Aftershocks relocation results together with geological surveys indicate that the causative fault is a near vertical fault with notable spatial variations: dip angle varies within 66A degrees-89A degrees from northwest to southeast and the average dip angle measures similar to 84A degrees. The results of this work are of fundamental importance for further studies on the source characteristics, tectonic environment, and seismic hazard evaluation of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake.
China is an earthquake-prone countries, so it's important to carry out earthquake escape education which has practical significance. The traditional way of earthquake escaping education is not vivid enough, also lacking the sense of reality or interactivity, so to arouse the learner's interest proved to be very difficult. Based on the constructivism learning concept, a new educational method for assisting earthquake escaping was proposed based on animation simulation technology. Using virtual reality engine an animation game was developed, in which virtual scenes were created, animation character was modeled, the motion controlling method for virtual characters was constructed, and particle animation was used so as to achieve earthquake effects. The prototype of this demonstration system can run in a browser, which makes it easy to promote. Preliminary tests show that users prefer this new educational method for earthquake escaping to the old ones. Electronic document is a live template. The various components of your paper [title, text, heads, etc.] are already defined on the style sheet, as illustrated by the portions given in this document.
On 12 May 2008, a major earthquake struck Wenchuan, Sichuan Province, China. Numerous scholars have published research reports. However, there are limited reports on the impending anomalies of this earthquake. In this paper, based on geomagnetic data, we calculated the cross-wavelet spectrum. The geomagnetic data were available from Chengdu station (CDP) and Chongqing station. The results demonstrate that the coherence of the vertical and the declination component (Z-D) increased one day before the earthquake at CDP. This is the expression of the synchronous change of the vertical component and declination component in the seismogenic area. We believe, based on evidence from geomagnetic data, theimpendinganomaly of the Wenchuan earthquake was gained, and it may be related to the convergence of energy by the earthquake formation.
Brittle punching failures can occur in slab-column connections due to earthquake-induced unbalanced moments. The performance of undamaged specimens and various repair/strengthening techniques have been studied in the past. This paper investigates a less studied scenario, in which a flat slab-column connection severely damaged by an earthquake is subjected to another earthquake without undergoing repair. The performance under this special loading protocol is analysed. It is shown that the drift capacity was not significantly impaired, but both the lateral and bending stiffness were reduced. Other relevant observations regarding the post-earthquake life of slab-column connections are brought to attention.
Injection of fluids in geo-reservoirs can reduce the effective stresses at depth, lubricating the nearby faults, promoting slip and, potentially, earthquakes. High-viscous fluids are often used during hydraulic fracturing and production phases in geo-reservoirs. Here, we performed dedicated experiments to study the influence of fluid viscosity on earthquake nucleation. We performed frictional sliding experiments at 30 and 50 effective normal stresses and fluids viscosity ranging from 1 to 1,226 mPa s and modeled them with a rate-and-state friction law. In the presence of fluid, the state variable is defined as the ability of the fluid to flow. Our results showed that static friction slightly decreases with increasing viscosity, the dynamic friction is governed by the dimensionless Sommerfeld number (S = 6 eta VL/(sigma'H-n(2))). Moreover, we observed that the (a - b) parameters of the rate-and-state friction law decrease with increasing viscosity down to (a - b) < 0, possibly promoting unstable slip and earthquake nucleation. Plain Language Summary In the last 30 years, the exponential worldwide increase of human-induced seismicity has become an important issue in solid earth sciences. Most of the induced seismicity is due to engineering operations in deep geo-reservoirs for hydrocarbon production, CO2 storage, wastewater disposal, and the exploitation of geothermal resources. While the reactivation of faults at the origin of this seismicity has been extensively studied, the influence of fluid properties including its viscosity has been overlooked, even if the viscosity of injected fluids spans from that of water to that of honey. In this study, we discuss the influence of fluid viscosity on the nucleation of earthquakes in fluid-permeated experimental faults and on induced earthquakes. Our experimental observations suggest that the viscosity of the fluid does not influence the fault strength. Instead, the viscosity of the fluid controls the behavior of the fault from stable to unstable sliding.
Here we investigated a statistical feature of earthquake time distributions in the southern California earthquake catalog. As a main data analysis tool, we used a simple statistical approach based on the calculation of integral deviation times (IDT) from the time distribution of regular markers. The research objective is to define whether and when the process of earthquake time distribution approaches to randomness. Effectiveness of the IDT calculation method was tested on the set of simulated color noise data sets with the different extent of regularity, as well as for Poisson process data sets. Standard methods of complex data analysis have also been used, such as power spectrum regression, Lempel and Ziv complexity, and recurrence quantification analysis, as well as multiscale entropy calculations. After testing the IDT calculation method for simulated model data sets, we have analyzed the variation in the extent of regularity in the southern California earthquake catalog. Analysis was carried out for different periods and at different magnitude thresholds. It was found that the extent of the order in earthquake time distributions is fluctuating over the catalog. Particularly, we show that in most cases, the process of earthquake time distributions is less random in periods of strong earthquake occurrence compared to periods with relatively decreased local seismic activity. Also, we noticed that the strongest earthquakes occur in periods when IDT values increase.
We used both seismic and InSAR data to investigate the mechanism behind the 2011 Hawthorne (Nevada) earthquake swarm that occurred between March 15 and August 17, 2011. Regional seismic data were used to estimate the centroid depth and focal mechanism for nine earthquakes that occurred in this swarm, with magnitudes between Mw3.9 and Mw4.8. The inferred focal mechanisms indicate that the source of these earthquakes is normal faulting with a small left-lateral strike-slip component along the southwest direction. Three InSAR displacement maps covering the epicentral zone of the 2011 Hawthorne earthquakes were inverted to get a slip model. The slip distribution shows that the deformation source is characterized by normal faulting, consistent with our inferred focal mechanisms. Our results suggest that the seismogenic zone was in the tensile stress environment. The temporal and spatial evolutions of seismicity suggest that the 2011 Hawthorne swarm might be caused by aseismic slip. Therefore, the 2011 Hawthorne earthquake swarm may have been the result of aseismic slip under the regional tectonic stress, and had nothing to do with volcanic activity. However, the quantitative evidence for aseismic slip is limited to the indication that the geodetic moment is 15% greater than the seismic moment, which is near the level of uncertainty.
Recently an earthquake sequence occurred in Haenam, southwestern part of the Korean Peninsula. Earthquake swarms are not unusual in the western region of Korea, which already experienced comparable series of earthquakes before the Haenam earthquake: in the Boryeong offshore (2013) and Baekryeong Island (2013 and 2019) regions. The M-L 3.1 earthquake occurred 21km WNW of Haenam on May 3, 2020 and the earthquake sequence occurred from April 26 to May 9 intensively. For two weeks, a dozen small foreshocks preceded the mainshock and more aftershocks occurred. In this paper, relocation of events with focal mechanisms based on the seismicity of the 2020 Haenam earthquake sequence is proposed. The distribution of earthquake sequence in Haenam area is WNW-ESE direction, which is approximately parallel to the fault plane solutions of events with M-L >= 2.0 indicating strike-slip faults. The sequential events concentrate within the elliptical area of about 0.18 km(2) on the surface and the focal depth distributions show some variations between 19.6 km and 21.6 km for different velocity models but their ranges are within about 500-600 m. The depth variations for different models can be due to the different boundary depths between upper and lower crusts. Based on a comparison of the earthquake swarms in the western region of the Korean Peninsula, this study provides seismological information for understanding the seismotectonic structures in the Korean Peninsula.
2003 Chuya earthquake aftershocks are studied using the data obtained during experiments with dense networks of stations. Density maps of the foci of more than 50,000 aftershocks are compared with the day surface faults and the block structure and tectonics of the focal area. The large shearing strain caused by the Chuya earthquake is accompanied by a spatially intermittent aftershock structure stretching along it. The density maps of long-lasted aftershocks differ in structure from the maps of seismic activity in the initial aftershock area. The study has revealed a relationship between the block structure of the epicentral area and the structure of the aftershock process. The nodes of the intersection of faults with the aftershock area are characterized by reduced aftershock activity. The aftershock process is only partly confined to the block-separating faults. In many cases, the aftershock process is shifted relative to these faults or wanders from them.
Knowledge about how hazard-threatened individuals perceive risks and what influences their intentions to prepare is crucial for effective disaster management. We investigated (a) whether residents of objectively higher-risk earthquake areas within a city perceive greater risk, have stronger intentions to prepare, and report more preparation than residents of objectively lower-risk areas, (b) 10 antecedent factors as predictors of the intention to prepare for an earthquake, and (c) whether risk perception mediates the relations between nine antecedent factors and the intention to prepare. Notably, residents of high-risk areas did not express stronger intentions to prepare or report more preparations than did residents of low-risk areas, despite perceiving significantly greater risk. Risk perception mediated the relation between antecedent fatalism and the intention to prepare. Among the policy implications is a clear need for greater education of residents in high-risk earthquake areas.
The detection of tectonic fracturing zones in the form of hidden faults, which are not exposed at the surface but are capable of generating intense seismic oscillations and causing hazardous geological phenomena, is a vital problem to be solved in the Priamurye region. We propose a comprehensive approach following which the earthquake migration data are taken as a basis for the detection of hidden faults, while the geophysical and morphostructural data are involved as the additional information for validating the obtained results. In our study, we detail the earthquake migration tendencies and estimate the migration direction and velocity. Based on these data, tectonic fracturing zones are identified and the hidden faults and their segments where persistent earthquake migration is manifested are revealed in the Priamurye region. The data that establish the direction and velocity of the earthquake epicenter migration will provide forecasting and assessment of natural hazards in the Priamurye region.
The article presents results of the first stage of the development of an animal monitoring system using IoT technology. Data on animal behavior collected using the system should confirm or refute the thesis about the ability of some animal species to respond to signs of an approaching earthquake. The article provides a review of the previous works on this topic and formulates new tasks, the solution of which will improve the previously available methodologies on the use of animals as a biosensor. The system exploits inertial sensors and computer vision to collect data on animal behavior. Data processing and analysis is carried out on the central server. It is expected that in the case of a systemic cause (for example, signs of an approaching earthquake) non-standard animal behavior should be massive.
In 2019 and 2020, the Balkan region was hit by two earthquakes of magnitude M-W = 6.4 On November 26, 2019, an earthquake struck Northwestern Albania, It was the strongest to hit Albania in more than 40 years Cities such as Thumane, Tirana, and Durres suffered damage, but Durres was the hardest hit with several building collapsed. On December 29, 2020, an earthquake occurred in the Sisak-Moslavina county of Croatia, located approximately 50 km south of Zagreb. Comparable to Albania, it was the strongest to hit in the Pokupsko-Petrinja seismic zone since the October 8, 1909 Pokupsko earthquake and the largest earthquake in the region in 140 years. It caused extensive damage in the cities of Petrinja, Glina, and Sisak as well as in numerous neighboring small towns and small settlements in the region. The shaking effects and building damage of both earthquakes could be investigated and documented during field operations. In Durres (Albania), the most affected buildings by the earthquake damage were reinforced concrete (RC) frame buildings with infill walls. Whereas, the Croatia earthquake caused major damage on the older and modern unreinforced masonry buildings. The paper provides an overview of the earthquake-induced damage in different types of buildings and their variations. The causes of the damage as well as the consequences for rapid response to earthquake are discussed in close relation to the standardization in low to moderate seismic regions in Europe.
The Itoigawa-Shizuoka Tectonic Line (ISTL) is a major oblique left-lateral crustal fault that is expected to host M7+ events in the near future. Its proximity to the Kanto sedimentary basin poses a threat to the population of Metropolitan Tokyo. This study constructs ground motion predictions for scenario earthquakes on the ISTL using virtual earthquakes. We use the ambient seismic field to calculate the cross-correlation function that we assume proportional to the elastodynamic Green tensor between High-Sensitivity Seismograph network stations, which act as sources located above the ISTL, and the stations of the dense Metropolitan Seismic Observation network, which act as receivers in the Kanto Basin. We use the virtual earthquake approach (Denolle et al., 2013, ; Denolle, Dunham, et al., 2014, ) to predict ground motion from a suite of 270 kinematic sources and find that predicted ground motions are strong enough that nonlinear effects, which we do not model, may become important. We find that the shape of the sedimentary basin substantially alters the shaking by amplifying long-period ground motions as seismic waves refract at the basin edge. Additionally, we quantify ground motion variability due to source uncertainty, surmise that ground motions are lognormally distributed with regard to source uncertainties, and suggest that the variability is affected (locally either enhanced or reduced) by the basin shape. Finally, we find a coupling point between source and wave paths for epicentral locations on the ISTL that generates almost twice the shaking as equivalent unilateral ruptures, despite directivity orientation that would favor southward ruptures. Plain Language Summary The Itoigawa-Shizuoka Tectonic Line (ISTL) is a major crustal fault that is expected to host M7+ events in the future. Its proximity to the Kanto sedimentary basin poses a threat to the population of Metropolitan Tokyo. This study constructs ground motion predictions for scenario earthquakes on the ISTL using continuous recordings of the ambient seismic field. It takes advantage of dense seismic networks in Japan (High-Sensitivity Seismograph network and Metropolitan Seismic Observation network) to characterize seismic wave propagation in complex sedimentary basin structures. The results show that the sedimentary basin shape particularly affects the strength of the ground shaking and its variability. Overall, ground motion levels for a future ISTL earthquake are large and likely to affect tall infrastructures such as tall buildings and bridges.
Alexithymia refers to difficulties in recognizing and describing one's emotions. We studied potential connections of alexithymia with severity of earthquake exposure, panic/somatic symptoms, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression in 5,195 adolescents affected by the Wenchuan earthquake. Participants completed the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20), the Children's Revised Impact of Event Scale (CRIES)-13, the abbreviated Kutcher Adolescent Depression Scale (KADS), and the panic/somatic subscale of the Screen for Child AnxietyRelated Emotional Disorders. The rate of alexithymia was 6.7%, and a greater proportion females were alexithymic than males (7.6% vs 5.7%). Alexithymia was more frequent among older subjects and those who were only-children. Alexithymia, severity of earthquake exposure and negative life events were independently associated with post-disaster psychological or somatic symptoms, and alexithymia was a mediator between traumatic experiences and psychopathology. Our data highlight the importance of alexithymia in the development of psychological distress, implying that alexithymia-targeted interventions may help treat or even prevent psychological distress after a disaster.
Post-earthquake fire (PEF) ignition events constitute a secondary consequence of an earthquake and may result in the loss of life and substantial property damage, especially in urban areas where the potential for fire spread and conflagration exists. These secondary hazards can cause severe structural and non-structural damage, potentially more significant damage than the direct damage caused by the initial earthquake, and can lead to catastrophic structural failures, devastating economic losses, and casualties. To manage the impact of PEF in urban areas, it is important to identify the potential ignition sources and quantify the vulnerabilities of these ignition sources as a result of earthquake-induced structural damage. The results of such analyses can be used to offer resiliency improvement investments and mitigation strategies in urban areas located in seismically active regions. Most of the previous PEF studies are data-driven, utilizing ignitions reported following recent earthquakes. However, in areas for which historical PEF data are not available, such as the Midwestern United States, a different methodology for developing a PEF model is needed. This paper describes an analytical model for quantifying the vulnerabilities of residential buildings to PEF by estimating the failure of ignition sources upon a probable seismic event. The underlying concept in developing the method is that (1) ignition sources in residential buildings remain unchanged before and after an earthquake, and (2) the total probability of PEF occurrence can be estimated by adjusting the probabilistic fire occurrence data for normal conditions (everyday operation of ignition sources) to account for the effect of the earthquake. This paper's contribution to state of the art is in developing a new framework for estimating the probability of PEF for areas in which historical PEF data is unavailable. The developed framework uses the likelihood of ignition occurrence during normal condition as a baseline; this baseline is then adjusted using certain key parameters to capture spatial characteristics, ignitability, and potential seismic intensity of the study area to estimate the probability of PEF as a function of projected earthquake characteristics. The model was tested for St. Louis City as a populated area with potential future earthquake hazard because of its proximity to the New Madrid Fault zone. Using the National Fire Incident Reporting System dataset, the frequency of normal condition ignitions was determined as 1.97E-03 ignition per unit per year. Using the proposed PEF model considering PEFs caused by damage to drift and acceleration sensitive equipment and human actions, the projected frequency of PEF was estimated between 2.79E-06 and 2.81E-06 ignitions per household per year. Using this model, and the average number of households between 2010 to 2015, 175,854 households, it was estimated that in the next 50years, approximately 25 households would experience fires related to probable earthquake events in St. Louis City.
Focal mechanisms of induced earthquakes reflect anthropogenic contributions to preexisting geological features and fault slippages. In this paper, we examine fault-related (double-couple (DC)) and possibly fluid-related (non-double-couple (non-DC)) mechanisms of induced earthquakes (M2-6) at regional scales. We systematically compare well-resolved focal mechanisms of 33 events in the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin, among which 12 were induced by hydraulic fracturing and one by secondary recovery. Most of the seismicity is dominated by strike-slip/thrust faulting regimes, whereas limited (but consistent) non-DC components are obtained from injection-induced seismicity in central Alberta. We interpret the persistent compensated-linear-vector-dipole components (M2.1-3.8) as reflecting fracture growth and/or noncoplanar faults slippages during hydraulic-fracturing stimulations. We further expand the moment tensor decomposition analysis to four representative classes of induced seismicity globally and find that the overall contribution of non-DC components is comparable between induced and tectonic earthquakes. Plain Language Summary Source mechanism of induced (man-made) earthquakes reflects human contributions to the fault slippages. We examine fault-related and possibly fluid-related components of the earthquake sources from western Canada and find evidence for fracture growth and/or nonplanar fault slippages during hydraulic-fracturing stimulations. We also systematically compare the well-resolved focal mechanisms of 79 earthquakes (induced by different reasons) with 24 natural ones. The results of our statistical analysis suggest that induced and natural earthquakes are similar in view of source mechanism.
Earthquakes occur frequently in rural areas of Sichuan, China, causing huge damage and high mortality. The built environment plays a significant role in providing residents with safe and resilient settlements in such areas. There is yet little research on how rural families in developing countries cope with geological disasters like earthquakes, and how built environmental factors would influence their resettlement choices which would directly affect their quality of life afterward. Urban planning activities should be accompanied by these insights to design and create human-centric resettlements accordingly. In this study, the resettlement choices after three major earthquakes in Sichuan were studied for this reason. Random sampling and face-to-face questionnaire surveys were combined with factor analysis and binary logistic regression to understand the resettlement modes desired by the residents and the influencing factors. The results show that residents who have lived in their current places long and whose houses were not built recently are more likely to choose the in-situ resettlement. Accessibility to employment and public services has a significant impact on residents' choice of in-situ resettlement or reallocated resettlement, and so does the previous resettlement experience. The research results can provide useful suggestions for Chinese rural area post-earthquake resettlement planning following a human-centric approach with empirical data.
This paper presents a site-specific analysis of ground response during the Tarlay Earthquake on March 24, 2011 in Northern Thailand. In this study, the NGA (Next Generation Attenuation) models were selected to predict ground motions due to the earthquake event. The equivalent linear and non-linear approaches were employed in the one-dimensional ground response analysis. Furthermore, the spectral responses produced by the equivalent linear and non-linear approaches were compared with the seismic design code of Thailand. The results showed that the ground motion from the NGA models agree with the strong motion parameters of Tarlay Earthquake. Peak ground acceleration (PGA) at ground surface obtained from both equivalent linear and non-linear approaches certainly results in the high amplification factor. In general, the study results could bring an attention to the local engineer to consider the seismic design value for Northern Thailand, particularly if the stronger earthquake happens in the future.
On May 22, 2016, four M-w 4 similar to 5 earthquakes struck Dingjie County, Tibet, China. Studying the characteristics of the seismogenic fault is of great significance for understanding the regional tectonic. Due to the small magnitude of this earthquake, the interferometric deformation field acquired by a single interferometric pair was affected by large phase noise, especially atmospheric noise. In order to solve this problem, this study applied the multi-temporal interferograms generated by the time series Sentinel-1A SAR imagery. The co-seismic deformation field of this series earthquake was reconstructed by a temporal averaging method. We applied a geodetic inversion based on interferometric displacement map and elastic dislocation models. The slip distribution on seismogenic fault plane was estimated. The calculated the strike, dip and rake of the best solution were 188 degrees, 43 degrees and 78 degrees, respectively. The result shows that accumulative displacement was created by normal faulting with some left-lateral strike slip contribution. The slip was mainly distributed between 0 km to 9 km in the depth, and the maximum amount of slip is about 25 cm at the depth of 3 km. The moment magnitude obtained by the inversion was M-w 5.58. The result of this study showed that the applied temporal averaging solution with spaceborne InSAR data can effectively extract the coseismic deformation field of moderate or small -sized shallow earthquakes. The result implied that this earthquake is closely related to the activity of the Southern Tibet Detachment and Shenzha-Dingjie fault in southern Tibet.
Despite global efforts to reduce seismic risk, actual preparedness levels remain universally low. Although earthquake-resistant building design is the most efficient way to decrease potential losses, its application is not a legal requirement across all earthquake-prone countries and even if, often not strictly enforced. Risk communication encouraging homeowners to take precautionary measures is therefore an important means to enhance a country's earthquake resilience. Our study illustrates that specific interactions of mood, perceived risk, and frame type significantly affect homeowners' attitudes toward general precautionary measures for earthquakes. The interdependencies of the variables mood, risk information, and frame type were tested in an experimental 2 x 2 x 2 design (N = 156). Only in combination and not on their own, these variables effectively influence attitudes toward general precautionary measures for earthquakes. The control variables gender, trait anxiety index, and alteration of perceived risk adjust the effect. Overall, the group with the strongest attitudes toward general precautionary actions for earthquakes are homeowners with induced negative mood who process high-risk information and gain-framed messages. However, the conditions comprising induced negative mood, low-risk information and loss-frame and induced positive mood, low-risk information and gain-framed messages both also significantly influence homeowners' attitudes toward general precautionary measures for earthquakes. These results mostly confirm previous findings in the field of health communication. For practitioners, our study emphasizes that carefully compiled communication measures are a powerful means to encourage precautionary attitudes among homeowners, especially for those with an elevated perceived risk.
Triggered seismicity frequently presents characteristics of diffusion as it migrates away from a source area with time. Such phenomena can be more profound when linked to pore-fluid pressure diffusion that can reduce the effective normal stress along fault zones triggering earthquakes. Such processes can be highly anisotropic, occurring preferentially along fractures and zones of weakness within a heterogeneous crust and a dynamically changing permeability field, giving rise to 'anomalous' earthquake diffusion. In this work, we study the diffusion properties of the 2001 Agios Ioannis earthquake swarm (Corinth Rift), which has been associated with fluid diffusion at depth. We map earthquake diffusion using a probabilistic approach and the well-established continuous-time random walk (CTRW) theory. Within this framework, we consider earthquake occurrence as a point-process in space and time, with jump lengths and waiting times between successive earthquakes drawn from a joint probability density function. The analysis of the swarm within the CTRW context indicates a broad probability density of waiting times with asymptotic power-law behaviour, as well as the power-law growth of the mean square displacement of seismicity with time with a diffusion exponent well below unity that marks normal diffusion. Such properties are intrinsic characteristics of anomalous diffusion and indicate the slow propagation of seismicity according to a subdiffusive process. To model earthquake propagation with time, we further describe the concentration profile of seismicity with an appropriate master equation and the time-fractional diffusion equation. Its asymptotic solution can well describe earthquake diffusion for various time periods, showing a peak of earthquake occurrence close to the origin and a stretched exponential decay for the concentration of distant events. Our results indicate that the CTRW model can sufficiently be used to map 'anomalous' earthquake diffusion in the highly heterogeneous crust.
During the periods 1910-1912, 1951-1955, and 1990-1993, due to the magnitude and the damage caused to the population, structure, and landscape, important surface earthquakes were located in the Central Valley of Costa Rica. The recurrence of these earthquakes is approximately 40 years and happened between seven and ten years, after the major subduction earthquakes of 1904, 1941, and 1983 in the Osa Peninsula. In the central region of the country, sporadic earthquakes have also occurred, with moderate to strong magnitude, and have caused damages, such as the Orotina earthquake in 1924, Perez Zeledon in 1983, Cinchona in 2009 and Capellades in 2016. If we consider all the most important earthquakes that have occurred in the interior of the central part of the country since the beginning of the 20th century and that have caused damage in the Central Valley, the recurrence period is 21 years and the probability that the next one will occur before January 1, 2038, 21 years after the Capellades earthquake on December 1, 2016, is greater than 0.86 with a 95% confidence interval [0.71, 0.98].
Resilience and functionality of a community after an extreme event rely on performance of several interdependent systems. Data from historic events show that power network seems to be the most critical lifeline, given the dependency of water, communication, transportation, and gas networks on power. This paper focuses on modeling of the performance of an electric network, after an earthquake, for application in analysis of interdependent systems. The paper proposes a streamlined approach to analyze post-earthquake performance of an electric network to identify regions in a community without power. The proposed approach quantifies damage at the component level using fragilities and a capacity index parameter that measures operability. System level network analysis, based on the capacity of the network, is completed to measure and compare power flow before and after the earthquake. A limiting ratio is defined to identify dark versus bright regions. The procedure is validated for two case studies.
In this work a seismic source description of the Capellades, Cartago province, Costa Rica earthquake, 2016-12-01 00: 25:20 UTC time is made. We study the fault's parameters, centroid, moment, magnitude, focal mechanism and aftershocks hypocenter with respective magnitudes. We also made a seismicity description in the epicentral zone before the Capellades earthquake occurred. The seismic network of the Observatorio Vulcanologico y Sismologico de Costa Rica de la Universidad Nacional (OVSICORI-UNA) and the Laboratorio de Ingenieria de la Universidad de Costa Rica (LIS-UCR) recorded the data used in the analysis. The main earthquake was located at 3.0 km depth, 3.7 km to the NNO of Capellades, with a magnitude (Mw) of 5.2. This earthquake was located between the Turrialba and Irazu volcanoes, Central Costa Rica Volcanic Arc. The moment tensor solution indicates a dextral strike-slip, almost vertical (dip 82 degrees), strike 155 degrees and slip 174 degrees, with a centroid depth at 6 km. The pressure axis was calculated with a strike and dip of 21 degrees/1 degrees, with an SSO-NNE direction and the tension axis with strike and dip of 111 degrees/ 10 degrees, indicating a tension in the SEE-NOO direction. In general, the focal mechanism obtained using waveform inversion or P-wave first motion indicate a strike-slip fault, with horizontal pressure and tension axes in accordance with the stress of other moderate and light intraplate seismic events that have occurred in the central volcanic arc of Costa Rica. In 5 days of aftershock activity, in the area between 9.9 and 10.12 north latitude, 83.9 and 83.72 west longitude, 1923 earthquakes were located, all with magnitudes less than 4.0 degrees on the Richter scale. The aftershocks relocation shows an epicentral trend with NW-SE direction, dipping to the SW and rupture area of 32 km(2). The strike 155 degrees coincides with the tendency shown by the aftershocks epicenters, which indicates the fault trace. The Irazu-Turrialba zone where occurred the December 1, 2016 earthquake, showed micro-seismicity months and years before the main event; but there was no knowledge of earthquakes like this one, in the area.
The December 23, 1854 Tokai earthquake (M-8), followed by Nankai earthquake by -30 hours, occurred along the Nankai Trough and caused widespread damage due to ground shaking and tsunamis. At the time of the earthquake, a Russian frigate, Diana, was anchored in Shimoda Bay and experienced the earthquake and tsunami. The frigate was damaged and eventually wrecked. Four Japanese historical documents reported that strong shaking occurred in Shimoda after 9 a.m. and before 10 a.m. in local time, reflecting the two-hour unit of the timekeeping system used in Japan at that time. The information from the frigate, reported in contemporary newspapers in English, all mentioned that an earthquake first shook the ship severely, and that they then observed the tsunami entering the bay around 10:00 in local time. The time of the earthquake, however, was reported as 9:15 in Shanghai and American newspapers (The North-China Herald, The Daily Union), and as 9:45 in the British press (The Times, The Illustrated London News). We found that the original logbook of the Diana, archived at the Russian State Archives of the Navy, Saint Petersburg, recorded that the earthquake occurred at 3/4 of the 10th hour, indicating 9:45. The former newspapers seemed to have been based on the information provided by the men of the American frigate Powhatan, which also arrived at Shimoda after the earthquake, but the time might have been erroneously translated into three-quarters to ten. More precisely, the above time expression should be interpreted as being between 9:45 and 9:59 in local time (138 degrees 57'E), corresponding to between 0:29 and 0:43 Greenwich Mean Time.
Hydrochemical changes before and after earthquakes have been reported for over 50years. However, few reports provide sufficient data for an association to be verified statistically. Also, no mechanism has been proposed to explain why hydrochemical changes are observed far from earthquake foci where associated strains are small (<10(-8)). Here we address these challenges based on time series of multiple hydrochemical parameters from two sites in northern Iceland. We report hydrochemical changes before and after M >5 earthquakes in 2002, 2012, and 2013. The longevity of the time series (10 and 16years) permits statistical verification of coupling between hydrochemical changes and earthquakes. We used a Student t test to find significant hydrochemical changes and a binomial test to confirm association with earthquakes. Probable association was confirmed for preseismic changes based on five parameters (Na, Si, K, O-18, and H-2) and postseismic changes based on eight parameters (Ca, Na, Si, Cl, F, SO4, O-18, and H-2). Using concentration ratios and stable isotope values, we showed that (1) gradual preseismic changes were caused by source mixing, which resulted in a shift from equilibrium and triggered water-rock interaction; (2) postseismic changes were caused by rapid source mixing; and (3) longer-term hydrochemical changes were caused by source mixing and mineral growth. Because hydrochemical changes occur at small earthquake-related strains, we attribute source mixing and water-rock interaction to microscale fracturing. Because fracture density and size scale inversely, we infer that mixing of nearby sources and water-rock interaction are feasible responses to small earthquake-related strains. Plain Language Summary Changes in groundwater chemistry before and after earthquakes have been reported for over 50years. However, few studies have been able to prove that the earthquakes caused these changes. Also, no study has explained why these changes are often reported far from where the earthquake occurred. Here we address these challenges based on measurements of groundwater chemistry made at two sites in northern Iceland over time periods of 10 and 16years. We used statistical methods to prove that the earthquakes caused changes of ground water chemistry both before and after the earthquakes. We showed that changes of groundwater chemistry before earthquakes were caused by slow mixing between different groundwaters, which triggered reactions with the wall rock that changed groundwater chemistry, and that changes of groundwater chemistry after earthquakes were causes by rapid mixing between different groundwaters. That these changes were detected far from where the earthquakes occurred suggests that cracking of the wall rock at a very small scale was all that was needed for mixing of different groundwaters and reactions with the wall rock to occur.
In this paper, we propose an earthquake simulator on a smartphone. This system uses a smartphone attached to VR goggles. A virtual room is constructed in the 3DCG space, and the shake acquired by sensors of the smartphone is applied to the virtual room. As a result, an earthquake occurs in the virtual room, and it would cause damage such as falling of furnitures. This system realizes a virtual earthquake experience room.
An earthquake is an event of dynamic, unstable slip that releases elastic energy stored in the earth's crust. This abrupt energy release requires the weakening of the slipping fault that is manifested by a strength drop from a static level to a dynamic level. The fault weakening occurs in two general zones: The rupture-front at the earthquake tip, and the frictional zone in the wake of the propagating front. Here, we analyze the weakening processes of the rupture-front in experimental stick-slips, and compare these processes to the weakening in the frictional zone. Our experimental analysis focuses on highspeed monitoring (1 MHz) of the strain-fields associated with spontaneous, unstable ruptures propagating bilaterally from a nucleation site along a circular fault. The ruptures propagated at velocities ranging from slow (similar to 100 m/s) to supershear, and the fault weakening by the rupture-front, defined by W-S = [strength drop/peak strength], is proportional to the rupture propagation velocity. W-S ranged 0.08-0.58 during tiny slip-displacements of 3.7-43 microns, in agreement with similar weakening intensity in a few sets of dynamic rupture experiments. In contrast, frictional weakening, which is traditionally analyzed in constant-velocity experiments, requires slip-displacements in the range of 0.1-10 m to reach similar weakening intensity. Therefore, in terms of slip-displacements, rupture-front weakening is more efficient than frictional weakening by orders of magnitude. Further, we observed that a rupture-front transported its intense weakening from a nucleation site to the entire experimental fault, and we argue that the equivalent process can occur along natural faults. If the rupture of a tiny earthquake, e.g., M < -5, is of similar scale and intensity as the experimental ruptures, it can locally weaken the host fault, and by doing so could serve as an earthquake nucleus. However, these tiny earthquakes could nucleate large ones only if sufficient elastic energy is available in the surrounding crust for the frictional sliding dissipation. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We investigated the contribution of earthquake-induced surface movements to the ground displacements detected through Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) data, after the M-w 3.9 Ischia earthquake on 21 August 2017. A permanent displacement approach, based on the limit equilibrium method, allowed estimation of the spatial extent of the earthquake-induced landslides and the associated probability of failure. The proposed procedure identified critical areas potentially affected by slope movements partially overlapping the coseismic ground displacement retrieved by InSAR data. Therefore, the observed ground displacement field is the combination of both fault slip and surficial sliding caused by the seismic shaking. These findings highlight the need to perform preliminary calculations to account for the non-tectonic contributions to ground displacements before any estimation of the earthquake source geometry and kinematics. Such information is fundamental to avoid both the incorrect definition of the source geometry and the possible overestimation of the coseismic slip over the causative fault. Moreover, knowledge of the areas potentially affected by slope movements could contribute to better management of a seismic emergency, especially in areas exposed to high seismic and hydrogeological risks.
Where a large earthquake will occur is the first problem to be solved in earthquake prediction. Using the fault stress changes obtained from inversion for the GNSS observation data in the 7 years (2004 2010) before the 2011 M9.0 Tohoku-Oki earthquake, we have found the seismogenic zone of the earthquake. In order to further study its evolution process, we investigate the fault stress changes from 1997 to 2003 in this paper. Through the two phases of inversion work, we see that the main characteristics of the annual change pattern of the fault stress changes are basically stable during the 14 years, the stress in the seismogenic zone increases year by year, and there exist obvious stress increase and decrease areas. The former is consistent with the rupture zone of the earthquake, and the latter is consistent with the foreshocks, small repeated earthquakes and aseismic sliding zones. The areas of significant shear stress increase are not only consistent with the main shock, but also with the rupture areas of the large aftershocks. We found that the contours of zero-shear and zero-normal stress change on the fault plane do not coincide, the former has a greater depth than the latter, which means that there exists a normal stress reduction zone or a shear strength reduction zone in the shear stress increase zone because the shear strength is proportional to the normal stress. The initial rupture point of the fault seems to be more preferred the location close to the contour of zero-normal stress change, because it is not only close to the area of shear strength reduction, but also located in the most significant area of shear stress accumulation. The results obtained show that normal stress changes have an impact on the initial rupture of a large earthquake, and the inversion method of fault stress change can be used to predict the location of large earthquakes.
Earthquakes have been universally recognised as seismological disasters that pose a threat to civilization and need to be monitored through prediction models. The development and usage of traditional statistical predicting models, which require the understanding of underlying physical scientific processes in a system and large amounts of data preparation, can be challenging and costly. Artificial intelligence-based models, specifically machine learning models, are able to easily review mass data volumes and identify complex data trends to make predictions, making them beneficial to be utilized as prediction models. Terengganu, located on the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia, has experienced three earthquakes in the last four decades and has the potential to be hit or affected by earthquakes due to its location within the vicinity of the South China Sea where the seismologically active Manila Trench is situated. This makes the development of machine learning models for the prediction of earthquakes in Terengganu important for future disaster analysis and management. Therefore, this study suggests artificial neural network (ANN) models as a tool to predict ground motion parameters, namely earthquake acceleration, depth, and velocity, in Terengganu. However, this study presents the comparison of the results of ANN with the results of Random Forest (RF). The data used to develop the models were collected by six seismological stations for two channels in Terengganu and provided by the Malaysian Meteorological Department. The data was partitioned into six sets for each ground motion parameter in each channel, with each set utilizing data from a different grouping of five stations for training and one station for testing. Earthquake depth was able to be modelled with accuracy univariately, that is using only the respective output parameter, which is earthquake depth, as the input parameter. Earthquake acceleration and velocity could not be modelled with accuracy univariately, and were improved by adding earthquake depth as an input parameter. Based on the analysis and evaluation of the results using four selected performance criteria, the ANN models show good performance in predicting earthquake acceleration, depth, and velocity.
Moderate to large earthquakes repeatedly occur beneath the southernmost Ryukyu arc and forearc, but the seismogenic structures were poorly studied. To better understand the southernmost Ryukyu seismogenic structures, we have deployed ocean bottom seismometers to record the aftershocks of a large earthquake in 2015. As a result, several groups of aftershocks are associated with the seismogenic structures. A deep group coincides with the north-dipping seismogenic zone that terminates near the tip of the mantle wedge beneath the Ryukyu Arc. A shallow group dips southward from the southern slope of the Ryukyu Arc to the southern end of the aftershocks; this group shows south-dipping normal faulting character and accompanies the lower crust exhumation of Ryukyu Arc above the seismogenic zone. A plate interface step-down beneath the seismogenic zone is inferred. A crustal underplating and exhumation around the seismogenic zone have taken place synchronously during the earthquake event. Plain Language Summary Large earthquakes frequently occur at the plate boundary where two plates converge. Those earthquakes usually appear at a segment of the downgoing plate surface, called a seismogenic zone. Seismogenic zones are extensively studied in order to understand the possible earthquake cycles, crustal stress variation, mechanisms of earthquake nucleation, rupture propagation, and so on. Historically, the southernmost Ryukyu seismogenic zone has generated numerous earthquakes but its seismogenic structures are still unclear. By studying aftershocks of a large earthquake in 2015, we show the general characters of the southernmost Ryukyu seismogenic zone and indicate a synchronous occurrence of the uplift of the south Ryukyu Arc and accumulation of some subducted material beneath the Ryukyu Arc.
Due to the casualties and economic losses that can be caused by building collapse after an earthquake, building damage assessment is a very important part of earthquake disaster evaluation. As a result of the advantages of polarimetric synthetic aperture radar (PolSAR) imaging, both the accuracy and speed of the damage assessment can be guaranteed in the process of building damage identification using a single post-earthquake PolSAR image. The number of collapsed buildings is usually overestimated when adopting the traditional method, which is because the scattering mechanism is similar to that of intact oriented buildings. In view of this, the variable coefficient of angle domains based on the Fourier amplitude spectrum parameter (CV_AFI) is proposed to ameliorate the damaged building overestimation. By combining the improved Yamaguchi four-component decomposition method with the CV_AFI parameter, the proposed method can be used to extract building damage information from a single PolSAR image. With the Ms 7.1 Yushu earthquake in China as the research case, compared with the traditional method, the producer's accuracy of the proposed method for undamaged buildings was increased by 38.87%. The proposed method can obtain a higher accuracy of building damage information extraction and significantly reduce building damage overestimation.
The purpose of this chapter is to review earthquake precursor studies in Japan. Among the long-, medium-, and short-term earthquake predictions that result from the study of precursors, the most meaningful are the short-term predictions because of their immediate effect on human lives. Very few investigations of earthquake precursors in Japan were undertaken before the 1995 Kobe M 6.9 earthquake, but extensive studies started after that event. The most important finding during the past two decades is that many of earthquake precursors are electromagnetic rather than seismological. Two Japanese frontier projects during the years of 1996-2001, in particular, have contributed very much to the progress of seismo-electromagnetics. Electromagnetic phenomena in possible association with earthquakes have been reviewed here with special reference to those achievements made during and after the frontier projects. Stimulated by the success of these Japanese frontier projects, national precursor studies projects devoted to earthquake prediction have been developed in different countries. In addition, several precursors are described (not only electromagnetic, but also of ground movements) that were associated with the M 9 Tohoku mega-earthquake of 2011. Future directions of earthquake precursor studies and short-term earthquake prediction are considered, and conclusions are presented.
Dynamic earthquake rupture causes mass redistribution around the fault, and the emitted propagating seismic waves are accompanied by bulk density perturbations. Both processes cause transient gravity changes prior to the arrival of P-waves. Such pre-P gravity signals have been detected in previous studies of several large earthquakes. However, the detections were limited to the vertical component of the signal owing to the high noise level in the horizontal records. In this study, we analyzed dense tiltmeter array data in Japan to search for the horizontal components of the signal from the 2011 Mw 9.1 Tohoku-Oki earthquake. Based on the synthetic waveforms computed for a realistic Earth model, we stacked the horizontal records and identified a signal that evidently exceeded the noise level. We further performed a waveform inversion analysis to estimate the source parameters. The horizontal tiltmeter data, combined with the vertical component of the broadband seismometer array data, yielded a constraint on the dip angle and magnitude of the earthquake in the ranges of 11.5 degrees-15.3 degrees and 8.75 degrees-8.92 degrees, respectively. Our results indicate that the analysis of the three components of the pre-P gravity signal avoids the intrinsic trade-off problem between the dip angle and seismic moment in determining the source mechanism of shallow earthquakes. Pre-P gravity signals open a new observation window for earthquake source studies.
On July 27, 2020, a shallow earthquake with a moment magnitude (M-w) of 5.0 occurred near Moc Chau in Northwestern Vietnam. Several shallow aftershocks, clustered in a small area, followed the mainshock. The mainshock caused damage to infrastructure in the source area, and considerable shaking was felt in many high buildings in surrounding cities. This event was the first recorded significant earthquake by a newly operational Vietnam broadband seismic network. The ground motions of this earthquake sequence were adequately recorded by this network. The strike-slip rupture mechanisms of the events were evaluated through moment tensor inversion analysis. After this earthquake, a field survey was conducted. A combined analysis of damage patterns and source mechanisms revealed that this earthquake sequence might be associated with the active right-lateral Da River fault. The site classification of each station that recorded data on the Moc Chau series was evaluated by computing the horizontal-to-vertical spectral ratio. This earthquake sequence was analyzed to evaluate the characteristics of the earthquake source and the seismic wave propagation in Northwestern Vietnam and to address the potential earthquake engineering applications of this information.
Purpose Earthquake tremors not only increase the chances of fire ignition but also hinder the fire-fighting efforts due to the damage to the lifelines of a city. Most of the international codes have independent recommendations for structural safety against earthquake and fire. However, the possibility of a multi-hazard event, such as fire following an earthquake is seldom addressed. Design/methodology/approach This paper presents an experimental study of Reinforced Concrete (RC) columns in post-earthquake fire (PEF) conditions. An experimental approach is proposed that allows the testing of a column instead of a full structural frame. This approach allows us to control the loading and boundary conditions individually and facilitates the testing under a variety of these conditions. Also, it allows the structure to be tested until failure. The role of parameters, such as earthquake intensity, axial load ratio and the ductile detailing of the column on the earthquake damage and subsequently the fire performance of the structure, is studied in this research. Six RC column specimens are tested under a sequence of quasi-static earthquake loading, followed by combined fire and axial compression loading conditions. Findings The experiment results indicate that ductile detailed columns subjected to 4% or less lateral drift did not lose significant load-carrying capacity in fire conditions. A lateral drift of 6% caused significant damage to the columns and reduced the load-carrying capacity in fire conditions. The level of the axial load acting on the column at the time of earthquake loading was found to have a very significant effect on the extent of damage and reduction in column load capacity in fire conditions. The columns that were not detailed for a ductile behavior observed a more significant reduction in axial load carrying capacity in fire conditions. Research limitations/implications This study is limited to columns of 230 mm size due to the limitations of the test setup. The applicability of these findings to larger column sections needs to be verified by developing a numerical analysis methodology and simulating other post-earthquake-fire tests available in the literature. Originality/value The experimental procedure proposed in this paper offers an alternative to the testing of a complete structural frame system for PEF behavior. In addition to the ease of conducting the tests, the procedure also allows much better control over the heating, structural loading and boundary conditions.
The 25 November 2016 Aketao, Xinjiang earthquake occurred on the northeastern margin of the Pamir plateau, rupturing the Muji fault on the northern segment of the Kongur Extensional System. We collected coseismic offsets at 7 GPS sites, which show that the fault experienced significate dextral slip with a near-field geodetic displacement of up to 12 cm along the strike. The joint inversion of GPS data and teleseismic P waveforms suggests a complex rupture pattern characterized by the unilateral propagation slip from the epicenter to the southeast for 60 km with a total seismic moment of similar to 1.3 x 10(19) Nm, corresponding to a magnitude of M (w) 6.7 earthquake. Our model of slip distribution shows two major slip patches with a slip amplitude up to similar to 0.6 m, one located at shallow depths of 0-8 km close to the hypocenter with apparent surface breaks and the other, similar to 40 km to the southeast, buried at a greater depth of similar to 12 km. The rupture is dominated by a right-lateral strike slip with significant normal-slip components. The near-field GPS data enhances the spatial resolution of source model. Based on the preferred slip model, the static Coulomb Failure Stress change caused by 2016 Aketao earthquake suggests that the unzipped western and eastern ends of Muji fault and the northern segment of Kungai Fault are significantly promoted.
A possible relationship between solar activity and the seismic activity of the Earth is considered. We analyzed the frequency of occurrence of earthquakes of various magnitudes with the Fourier transform: for M >= 7 over the period 1900-2019 and for 2.5 M <= 7 over the period 1973-2019. The average annual, monthly, and daily values of the solar-terrestrial variables, the number of earthquakes with intensities that fall within the specified boundaries are calculated. The epoch overlapping method was used to analyze the possible relationship between the Wolf numbers and the number of earthquakes at the corresponding moment in the cycle. 4 periods of each solar cycle were identified: the phase of ascending, maximum, descending, and minimum. Earthquakes over the entire globe and in the regions of extension and compression of the earth's crust were analyzed for each phase. No statistically significant dependencies between solar-terrestrial variables and earthquake initiation were found for all time intervals and all selected earthquake magnitudes. An interesting fact was established concerning the change in the number of earthquakes at different periods of the day. The number of earthquakes in the nighttime appreciably increases (by similar to 10 %) compared to the daytime. A slight increase in the number of earthquakes after local noon was also detected. We could not confirm the existence of a direct connection between solar activity and the seismic activity of the Earth, but we cannot also claim that such a connection does not exist.
Reservoir-triggered seismicity has been observed near dams during construction, impoundment, and cyclic filling in many parts of the earth. In Turkey, the number of dams has increased substantially over the last decade, with Ataturk Dam being the largest dam in Turkey with a total water capacity of 48.7 billion m(3). After the construction of the dam, the monitoring network has improved. Considering earthquakes above the long-term completeness magnitude of M-C = 3.5, the local seismicity rate has substantially increased after the filling of the reservoir. Recently, two damaging earthquakes of M-w 5.5 and M-w 5.1 occurred in the town of Samsat near the Ataturk Reservoir in 2017 and 2018, respectively. In this study, we analyze the spatio-temporal evolution of seismicity and its source properties in relation to the temporal water-level variations and the stresses resulting from surface loading and pore-pressure diffusion. We find that water-level and seismicity rate are anti-correlated, which is explained by the stabilization effect of the gravitational induced stress imposed by water loading on the local faults. On the other hand, we find that the overall effective stress in the seismogenic zone increased over decades due to pore-pressure diffusion, explaining the enhanced background seismicity during recent years. Additionally, we observe a progressive decrease of the Gutenberg-Richter b-value. Our results indicate that the stressing rate finally focused on the region where the two damaging earthquakes occurred in 2017 and 2018.
Introduction: Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) is a commonly encountered peripheral vestibular disorder. People exposed to massive earthquakes experience intense and long-term problem associated with dizziness. The purpose of our study is to investigate this relationship and to demonstrate the efficacy of the treatment modalities used in the management of patients with post-earthquake dizziness. Methodology: The study was carried out by examining the retrospective records of patients who presented with dizziness to the otorhinolaryngological outpatient unit before and after the Elazig earthquake that occurred on 24th Jan 2020. Parameters evaluated include patients' age and gender, onset of dizziness, accompanying symptoms and comorbidities, videonystagmography (VNG) findings, pre- and post-treatment Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Dizziness Handicap Inventory (DHI), and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Results: The number of patients who presented with dizziness to our outpatient clinic after the earthquake and were included in our study totaled 84. The number of patients who visited the outpatient clinic before the earthquake was identified to be 75. In the earthquake related group, while there was a statistically significant difference between residual symptoms (RS) and the need for repetitive repositioning maneuvers, there was no statistically significant difference detected for age, gender, and comorbidities. Also, no statistically significant difference was found in the pre- and post-treatment assessments of VAS, DHI, and HADS median values in the earthquake group. Conclusion: There was a remarkable increase in the number of patients presenting with dizziness in the early post-earthquake period. Management of these patients may differ from the classic BPPV. Residual symptoms appearing after performing repositioning maneuvers can be more commonly seen among these patients.
Fire loading following earthquake loading is possible in any building in a seismic-prone area. However, most design approaches do not consider fire following earthquake as a specific loading case. Moreover, seismic design philosophies allow a certain degree of damage in structural elements which make structures more vulnerable when subjected to post-earthquake fire. This study uses three-dimensional numerical models to investigate the effect of earthquake damage on the fire resistance of composite steel-frame office buildings. A total of two types of earthquake damage, fire insulation delamination and residual lateral frame deformation, are investigated. It is concluded that earthquake damage can significantly reduce the fire resistance of composite buildings, with delamination of fire protection having the greatest effect. The results of this study can be used by designers to improve the post-earthquake fire resistance of composite buildings.
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to describe the impacts of earthquakes on schools and education services and demonstrate the critical role that information and communication technologies (ICTs) can play in supporting the continuity of education delivery during temporary school closures after seismic events. Design/methodology/approach - This paper relies on a conceptual analysis that shows the potential role of the online educational environment during post-earthquake school closures by relying on the available ICT tools. Findings - This paper proposes a pro-active strategy for schools that transforms traditional education into an online learning environment to restore education delivery during school closures after earthquake which disrupts face-to-face teaching and denies students and staffs access to schools. Originality/value - The sustainability of education delivery in the aftermath of earthquakes presents a challenge to governments, schools, people and communities. This paper contributes to the literature by demonstrating the role of online learning in sustaining educational delivery services after moderate earthquakes.
The problem of universality of critical exponents in complex networks is studied based on networks built from seismic data sets. Using two data sets corresponding to Chilean seismicity (northern zone, including the 2014 M-w = 8.2 earthquake in Iquique; and central zone without major earthquakes), directed networks for each set are constructed. Connectivity and betweenness centrality distributions are calculated and found to be scale free, with respective exponents gamma and delta. The expected relation between both characteristic exponents, delta > (y+1)/2, is verified for both data sets. However, unlike the expectation for certain scale-free analytical complex networks, the value of S is found to be non-universal. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The Hongshiyan landslide, the largest landslide (volume similar to 12.24 Mm(3)) triggered by 2014 Mw 6.2 Ludian earthquake, blocked the Niulan river forming a rockslide dam; the failure potential of the dam created an elevated risk to population and infrastructure downstream. We provide insight into the failure mechanics of the Hongshiyan landslide using data obtained by means of remote sensing techniques and traditional in-situ surveys. Geological data obtained by these methods was then used for kinematic and numerical analyses. Our study shows that failure of the Hongshiyan landslide involved a high rock slope with an average slope of 55 degrees and aspect of 185 degrees SSW, in which the geological setting consists of an upper strong limestone slab and an underlying weak silty mudstone. The geological setting allowed the landslide to develop, as follows: i) the silty mudstone, due to its poor mechanical properties, was subject to ductile deformation under the compressive loading from the overlying strong limestone slabs; ii) a large number of release fractures in the limestone developed as a consequence of pre-failure progressive deformation in the underlying weak mudstone; iii) the oxidation and solution along steep joint walls in the upper limestone indicates that the joints are pathways that allow water ingress into the mudstone, further promoting the degradation of shear strength in this layer. Distinct element modelling (UDEC) was used to back analyse the failure mechanism and develop the geological model that best reproduced the Hongshiyan failure geometry. Results show that the failure surface consisted of two elements. The upper steeply dipping release surface formed along the slope-parallel steep cross joints defining a jointed, strong limestone slab, and the toe of the failure formed a curved failure surface through the ductile weak silty mud stone, underlying the limestone slab, independent of any discontinuities within it. The pre-failure observations and numerical analysis suggest that the Hongshiyan slope was in a state of marginal static stability prior to the earthquake as a result of pre-failure progressive deformation controlled by the shear strength of the underlying mudstone. Overall, the marginal pre-earthquake stability of the Hongshiyan slope, coupled with the strongest seismic loading, which the Hongshiyan slope has been historically subjected to, are the reasons why this moderate earthquake induced a large-scale catastrophic rock slope failure.
The M-w = 8. 6 earthquakes occurred on 11 April 2012 and ruptured off the west coast of northern Sumatra. The fault slip models of the earthquake were estimated from different data, but have large differences in the strike-slip nature of faults. GRACE-derived co-seismic gravity changes cover the epicenter area, which can provide good constraint on the fault parameters inversion. In this paper, co-seismic gravity and gradient changes of the 2012 Sumatra earthquake are extracted from GRACE time-variable gravity field and the superiority of the northward component is presented. The theoretical calculation results of the fault model are compared with the GRACE and the sensitivity of the T-xx (north-to-north gravity gradient) to the fault parameters is analyzed. Finally, the fault parameters of the earthquake are retrieved based on the particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm and the Okubo dislocation model. The results show that the GRACE-observed co-seismic gravity and gravity gradient changes are in good agreement with the model-estimated results in spatial pattern, but have difference in amplitudes. The strip errors can be substantially suppressed by the north components of gravity and gravity gradients changes, where the noise level of g, (north gravity change) and T-xy are the lowest, followed by T-xz (northto-up gravity gradient) and the worst is the T-xy (north-to-east gravity gradient). The T. is not sensitive to the depth of the fault, but sensitive to other fault parameters. The GRACE-inverted strike angle, dip angle, rake angle and average slip magnitude of the earthquake are 113. 63 degrees , 89. 99 degrees , 175. 26 degrees and 28. 18 m, respectively, indicating a moment-magnitude M-w = 8. 71. In addition, the GRACE-inverted rake angle shows that the earthquake is dominated by the right-lateral strike-slip.
The characteristics of shallow low-frequency earthquakes (LFEs) are related to stress changes on the shallow plate boundary, which are important for understanding the megathrust earthquake cycle. The 5 September 2004 off the Kii Peninsula earthquakes (M-JMA = 7.1, 7.4) occurred near the Nankai trough subduction zone, off southwest Japan. Ocean bottom seismometer observations from 22 September to 30 November 2004 detected many shallow LFEs among the ordinary aftershocks. During the observation period, the frequency of shallow LFEs steadily decayed with the exception of episodic activities, which were very sensitive to stress changes caused by tides and the 23 October 2004 Niigata earthquake (M-JMA = 6.8). We also confirmed correlations between shallow LFEs and shallow very low frequency earthquakes, which suggest that these slow events represent the same slip phenomenon. These findings will contribute to clarifying the impact of LFEs on megathrust earthquakes.
The observatory network of the Crustal Deformation China Seismological Bureau was equipped with vertical pendulum tiltmeter, borehole tiltmeter, tunnel extension meters, multi-component borehole strainmeter, body strainmeter and other tilt and strain observation instruments. All of these instruments have recorded the Earth's free oscillation excited by the Japan Mw9.0 Earthquake. By analyzing those observations, all of the spheroidal oscillation modes (S-0(3)-S-0(30)) and toroidal oscillation modes (T-0(3)-T-0(20)) excited by the Japan Mw9.0 Earthquake were detected in this paper. In addition, comparing the different observation results which obtained by those instruments, we revealed their capacity to observe different kinds of oscillation and different frequency band modes, and analyzed report the reason. We found that the body strainmeter and the vertical pendulum tiltmeter have better observing results for spheroidal oscillation. Because of high noise in low frequency band, the borehole tiltmeter cannot observe the low-order spheroidal oscillation. In terms of observing the toroidal oscillation, the multi-component borehole strainmeter got a best result. The vertical pendulum tiltmeter observes a few toroidal oscillation modes, and the tunnel extension meters can only observe some low-order modes. (C) 2018 Institute of Seismology, China Earthquake Administration, etc. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.
Earthquake infrasound contains information concerning the underground media and the earthquake source. We identify three types of repeating infrasound: local, secondary, and epicentral infrasound from two successive Mw6.2 earthquakes (separated by <2 h and <10 km) in Alaska. The path effects are the same for the two sets of repeating infrasound, letting us focus on the coupling mechanism. We calculate the relative power spectral density change between the two events using acoustic and seismic records from array I53 and individual USArray stations. In the 0.9-2.1 Hz band, we find that seismic energy is converted efficiently into acoustic energy. In addition, we identify similar spatial distributions of the seismic and diffracted infrasonic energies, which indicate the influence of different earthquake focal mechanisms on the infrasound observations. This study sheds light on the generation mechanism of earthquake infrasound and demonstrates the potential for monitoring infrasound to constrain earthquake source properties.
Nested Newmark model (NNM) can obtain the post-earthquake profile of the slopes in limit equilibrium or limit analysis method. The purpose of this study is to extend the NNM from the limit equilibrium method to a limit analysis method, and then involve the dynamic response of slopes into the prediction of the permanent displacement based on decoupled analysis. Parametric studies are carried out to further investigate the influences of slope height, soil shear wave velocity and input ground motion. The calculated results indicate that neglecting the dynamic response of slopes can underestimate the post-earthquake displacements. As the slope height increases or shear wave velocity reduces, the underestimation is more significant. At the fundamental natural period of the site, the underestimation is particularly remarkable. For induced earthquake waves with a small value of mean period, the influence of the dynamic response can be ignored when the fundamental period deviates from the mean period.
Aftershocks of highest magnitude of major earthquakes of magnitude >= 7.9 can be forecast on certain lunar days when prominent changes are observed in both values of (Ocean) high tides. If main earthquake occurs on the day when both (Ocean) high tides start decreasing or when both high tides are observed as minimum (continue decreasing) then aftershock of maximum magnitude can be forecast during low tide period. If main earthquake occurs on the day when both high tides start increasing or both high tides are observed as maximum (continue increasing) then aftershock of maximum magnitude can be forecast during high tide period.
Earthquakes in the Indo-Burmese arc occur due to interaction of India and Sunda plates along the Indo-Burmese Wedge and Sagaing Fault. Majority of the moderate to major magnitude earthquakes in the Indo-Burmese Wedge occur within the Indian slab and very few of them occur on the plate interface. Earthquakes within the wedge are rare and the 22 June 2020 earthquake of magnitude 5.5 (M-w) on the India-Myanmar border in Mizoram, India, at shallow depth is probably one such earthquake. The earthquake caused moderate damage (maximum intensity VIII on MSK scale) in remote border villages (Vaphai and Chawngtui) with sparse population without any fatality. The earthquake did not seem to be related with the Mat Fault, which was transverse to the north-south trending wedge, as various estimates of mainshock and the region of maximum damage was similar to 20 km northeast of the surface trace of the Mat Fault. It appeared to be associated with almost north-south oriented Churachandpur Mao Fault (CMF) with dextral slip which mapped extensively and monitored geodetically in the neighbouring regions of Manipur and Nagaland to the north. Occurrence of this shallow depth earthquake may imply that some segment of the CMF might be seismically active, unlike in the north, where it appears to be predominantly aseismic. This implies that the seismic hazard along the CMF may vary along its length.
The earthquake early warning (EEW)-research group at National Taiwan University has been developing a microelectromechanical system-based accelerometer called P-Alert, designed for issuing EEWs. The main advantage of P-Alert is that it is a relatively economical seismometer. However, because of the expensive nature of commercial hardware for structural health monitoring (SHM) systems, the application of SHM to buildings remains limited. To determine the performance of P-Alert for evaluating post-earthquake building safety, we conducted a series of steel-frame shaking table tests with incremental damage. We used the fragility curves of different damage levels and the interstory drift ratios (calculated by the measured acceleration of each story using double integration and a filter) to gauge the potential damage levels. We concluded that the acceptable detection of damage for an entire building is possible. With improvements to the synchronization of the P-Alert sensors, we also anticipate a damage localization feature for the stories of a building.
Deep earthquakes exhibit strong variabilities in their rupture and aftershock characteristics, yet their physical failure mechanisms remain elusive. The 2018 Mw 8.2 and Mw 7.9 Tonga-Fiji deep earthquakes, the two largest ever recorded in this subduction zone, occurred within days of each other. We investigate these events by performing waveform analysis, teleseismic P wave backprojection, and aftershock relocation. Our results show that the Mw 8.2 earthquake ruptured fast (4.1 km/s) and excited frequency-dependent seismic radiation, whereas the Mw 7.9 earthquake ruptured slowly (2.5 km/s). Both events lasted similar to 35s. The Mw 8.2 earthquake initiated in the highly seismogenic, cold core of the slab and likely ruptured into the surrounding warmer materials, whereas the Mw 7.9 earthquake likely ruptured through a dissipative process in a previously aseismic region. The contrasts in earthquake kinematics and aftershock productivity argue for a combination of at least two primary mechanisms enabling rupture in the region. Plain Language Summary Physical mechanisms of deep earthquakes are poorly understood as their ambient environments inhibit brittle slips, which operate shallow earthquake rupture processes. On 19 August 2018, a moment magnitude 8.2 deep earthquake occurred in Tonga, and 18 days later, another moment magnitude 7.9 deep earthquake occurred about 280 km away. These two events are among the largest deep earthquakes that have ever been recorded. We investigate these two events with a variety of seismological techniques and find that these two earthquakes show distinct rupture characteristics and aftershock productivities. The Mw 8.2 earthquake ruptured fast, whereas the Mw 7.9 earthquake ruptured slowly, despite they both lasted similar to 35s. Our observations show that Tonga can host two types of deep earthquakes with diverse and complex source properties, which is rarely observed. More importantly, our observations suggest that multiple physical mechanisms enabled the rupture propagation for the Mw 8.2 earthquake, and the Mw 8.2 and Mw 7.9 earthquake likely ruptured through different physical processes.
Records of an IRIS broadband seismic station (AAK) deployed in the Tien Shan area were studied. An STS-1 seismometer made it possible to investigate ground motion velocity in the range of a few minutes. The result was to identify asymmetric anomalies in seismic noise that differ from Earth tidal variations. These indicate the effects of local tectonic processes during some time intervals. Several large earthquakes occurred near the seismic station during the days that the anomaly was observed. The seismic noise anomalies and statistically significantly earthquakes were found to be coincident with increased amplitudes of air pressure variations.
Safety assessment of vehicles crossing highway interchanges during earthquakes by reliability-based numerical simulations is presented in this paper. The assessment was performed for two limit states: vehicle rollover and sideslipping accidents. Simulations were conducted using three-dimensional finite element models of two existing highway interchanges consisting of straight and curved bridges under site-specific earthquakes. Effects of curved bridges radii, levels of earthquake, vehicle type, driving velocity, and road surface conditions on the safety limit states of five types of vehicles, namely, sedan-type, SUV, small-box truck, bus, and large truck, were investigated and clarified in the Monte Carlo simulation.
Azimuth and range measurements from Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) images are commonly used to depict the coseismic deformation of large earthquakes. Azimuth measurements associated with moderate-sized earthquakes are hardly applicable due to their limited accuracy. In this paper, we first explored the capability of Sentinel-1 azimuth measurements to map the coseismic deformation of a moderate earthquake. We used both range and azimuth offset measurements to map the coseismic deformation of the 2020 M-w 6.5 Monte Cristo Range earthquake in Nevada. Optimal dip angles of the two main faults and the slip model were obtained. By adding azimuth displacements as constraints, the inverted slip model reveals shallower and more refined slip than models only constrained by InSAR and GPS data, highlighting the importance of introducing the azimuth measurements to the moderate earthquake. The preferred fault model shows a mixture of left-lateral and normal faulting on the western segment and a left-lateral slip on the eastern segment. We found that the inferred faults might verify the clockwise rotation block model, which has been proposed to accommodate fault slip across the Mina deflection. Moreover, a shallow alluvial basin and the young left-lateral fault within the left bend can potentially be responsible for the orientation and normal slip components in the western fault segment, respectively.
Physical phenomena observed before strong earthquakes have been reported for centuries. Precursor signals, which include radon anomalies, electrical signals, water level changes and ground lights near the epicenter, can all be used for earthquake prediction. Anomalous negative signals observed by ground-based atmospheric electric field instruments under fair weather conditions constitute a novel earthquake prediction approach. In theory, the abnormal radiation of heat before an earthquake produces fair weather around the epicenter. To determine the near-epicenter weather conditions prior to an earthquake, 81 global earthquake events with magnitudes of 6 or above from 2008 to 2021 were collected. According to Harrison's fair weather criteria, in 81.48% of all statistical cases, the weather was fair 6 h before the earthquake; in 62.96% of all cases, the weather was fair 24 h before the event. Moreover, most of these cases without fair weather several hours before the earthquake were near the sea. Among the 37 inland earthquakes, 86.49% were preceded by 6 h of fair weather, and 70.27% were preceded by fair weather for 24 h. We conclude that the weather near the epicenter might be fair for several hours before a strong earthquake, especially for inland events.
The evacuation procedure during an earthquake can likely lead to a stampede among a crowd of people involved in it and consequently casualties. The understanding and simulation of this procedure are essential to study how unexpected disasters affect casualties, behaviors and safety levels in an earthquake. This paper proposes an improved cellular automata model considering people's subjective perceptions (e.g. familiarity, behavioral preference) and implementation of safety protocol (e.g. protocol robustness) during an earthquake. This study simulates an evacuation procedure done in a room and a whole building; the effects of the model parameters, evacuation priority, and collapsed staircases are studied. The minimum evacuation time is associated with higher level of evacuees' familiarity with the surroundings where the earthquake occurs, undifferentiated habitual preference, and a suitable range of protocol robustness. A multi-floor case study based on the proposed model shows that the total evacuation time in the building after an earthquake occurs can be significantly reduced with more emergency staircases. Adjusting the evacuation order of pedestrians on different floors can increase the efficiency of evacuation. The effect of collapsed staircases during or after earthquake occurrence is simulated to examine the pedestrians in a collision. Finally, strategies for improving the efficiency of evacuation during earthquakes are proposed.
National Research Institute for Earth Science and Disaster Resilience (NIED) integrated the land observation networks established since the 1995 Kobe earthquake with the seafloor observation networks established since the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami as MOWLAS (Monitoring of Waves on Land and Seafloor) in November 2017. The purpose of MOWLAS is to provide comprehensive, accurate, and rapid observation and monitoring of earthquake, tsunami, and volcano events throughout Japan and its offshore areas. MOWLAS data are widely utilized for long-term earthquake forecasting, the monitoring of current seismic activity, seismic and tsunami hazard assessments, earthquake early warning, tsunami warning, and earthquake engineering, as well as earthquake science. Ocean bottom observations provide an extension of observations to areas where no people are living and have the advantage of increasing lead time of earthquake early warning and tsunami warning. The application of recent technology advancements to real-time observations as well as the processing of MOWLAS data has contributed to the direct disaster mitigation of ongoing earthquakes. These observations are fundamental for both science and disaster resilience, and thus it is necessary to continue ceaseless operation and maintenance.
In 2016 two moderate earthquakes occurred in Oklahoma, the M 5.8 Pawnee earthquake and the M 5.0 Cushing earthquake. Strong ground shaking from these earthquakes was captured with seismometers and accelerometers across the state of Oklahoma, including 4 motions recorded within 10 km of the M 5.0 Cushing event. The motions recorded within 400 km are analyzed in terms of their engineering characteristics: peak ground acceleration, spectral acceleration, peak ground velocity, Arias intensity, mean period, and duration. The near-field recordings from the Cushing earthquake are particularly interesting, with peak ground accelerations as large as 0.25 to 0.6 g. However, these motions did not have significant energy at longer periods. The spectral accelerations at 1.0 s generally were only 5 to 20% of the PGA values, the PGV were between 7 and 10 cm/s, and the mean period between 0.1 and 0.15 s. Additionally, the durations were very short (1-2 s). At distances between 10 and 50 km, the motions were much smaller in intensity for both the Pawnee and Cushing events with PGA values between 0.003 and 0.06 g and PGV between 0.3 and 3 cm/s. However, the durations were much longer (10-20 s) than the near-field motions. These data indicate the unique characteristics of near-field motions from potentially induced earthquakes in Central and Eastern North America (large PGA, smaller PGV, short duration), which influences the potential for damage to be induced during these events.
The maximum expected earthquake magnitude is an important parameter in seismic hazard and risk analysis because of its strong influence on ground motion. In the context of injection-induced seismicity, the processes that control how large an earthquake will grow may be influenced by operational factors under engineering control as well as natural tectonic factors. Determining the relative influence of these effects on maximum magnitude will impact the design and implementation of induced seismicity management strategies. In this work, we apply a numerical model that considers the coupled interactions of fluid flow in faulted porous media and quasidynamic elasticity to investigate the earthquake nucleation, rupture, and arrest processes for cases of induced seismicity. We find that under certain conditions, earthquake ruptures are confined to a pressurized region along the fault with a length-scale that is set by injection operations. However, earthquakes are sometimes able to propagate as sustained ruptures outside of the zone that experienced a pressure perturbation. We propose a faulting criterion that depends primarily on the state of stress and the earthquake stress drop to characterize the transition between pressure-constrained and runaway rupture behavior.
The generation of the 2011 Tohoku-oki earthquake has been modeled by many authors by considering a dynamic weakening mechanism such as thermal pressurization (TP). Because the effects of TP on afterslip have not been investigated, this study develops a 3D quasi-dynamic model of the earthquake cycle to investigate afterslip of the Tohoku-oki earthquake, considering TP and the geometry of the plate boundary. We employ several velocity-weakening (VW) patches for M-w 7 class events, and two large shallow VW patches. The frictional properties are set as velocity-strengthening (VS) outside the VW patches. The results show that, during megathrust earthquakes, fast slip propagates to the surrounding VS regions near the VW patches owing to weakening by TP. Following M-w 9 events, large afterslips occur in regions below the northern shallow rupture area in the off-Fukushima region close to the Japan Trench, which is consistent with observations. In the VS region near the VW patches, during the early afterslip period, frictional behavior exhibits less VS with increasing slip velocity due to pore pressure reduction. We also consider the frictional properties of the shallow plate boundary fault off Tohoku, which exhibits a transition from VW to VS from low to high slip velocities. The results show the occurrence of slow slip events (SSEs) at intervals of a few decades at the shallow plate boundary. During megathrust events, the VW property at low slip velocity promotes slip along the shallow SSE region more than the case with VS property throughout the entire velocity range.
Earthquake early warning (EEW) is the delivery of ground shaking alerts or warnings. It is distinguished from earthquake prediction in that the earthquake has nucleated to provide detectable ground motion when an EEW is issued. Here we review progress in the field in the last 10 years. We begin with EEW users, synthesizing what we now know about who uses EEW and what information they need and can digest. We summarize the approaches to EEW and gather information about currently existing EEW systems implemented in various countries while providing the context and stimulus for their creation and development. We survey important advances in methods, instrumentation, and algorithms that improve the quality and timeliness of EEW alerts. We also discuss the development of new, potentially transformative ideas and methodologies that could change how we provide alerts in the future. Earthquake early warning (EEW) is the rapid detection and characterization of earthquakes and delivery of an alert so that protective actions can be taken. EEW systems now provide public alerts in Mexico, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan and alerts to select user groups in India, Turkey, Romania, and the United States. EEW methodologies fall into three categories, point source, finite fault, and ground motion models, and we review the advantages of each of these approaches. The wealth of information about EEW uses and user needs must be employed to focus future developments and improvements in EEW systems.
A forecast of an earthquake should identify the first stages of earthquake development: nucleation and stick-slip. We show that a forecast cannot be achieved by seismic measurements due to their high attenuation, but can be obtained by judicial filtering of electromagnetic radiation. Results show that electromagnetic radiation emitted from fractures (FEMR) during the early stages of an earthquake is less attenuated than seismic measurements due to the high frequencies involved, but could be cluttered by external noise. Based on our previous studies, an analysis of FEMR constructed on a profile of individual pulses can remove part of the clatter.
The 2016-2017 Central Apennines earthquake sequence is a recent example of how damages from subsequent aftershocks can exceed those caused by the initial mainshock. Recent studies reveal that physics-based aftershock forecasts present comparable skills to their statistical counterparts, but their performance remains a controversial subject. Here we employ physics-based models that combine the elasto-static stress transfer with rate-and-state friction laws, and short-term statistical Epidemic Type Aftershock Sequence (ETAS) models to describe the spatiotemporal evolution of the earthquake cascade. We then track the absolute and relative model performance using log-likelihood statistics for a 1-year horizon after the 24 August 2016 M-w = 6.0 Amatrice earthquake. We perform a series of pseudoprospective experiments by producing seven classes of Coulomb rate-state (CRS) forecasts with gradual increase in data input quality and model complexity. Our goal is to investigate the influence of data quality on the predictive power of physics-based models and to assess the comparative performance of the forecasts in critical time windows, such as the period following the 26 October Visso earthquakes leading to the 30 October M-w = 6.5 Norcia mainshock. We find that (1) the spatiotemporal performance of the basic CRS models is poor and progressively improves as more refined data are used, (2) CRS forecasts are about as informative as ETAS when secondary triggering effects from M3+ earthquakes are included together with spatially variable slip models, spatially heterogeneous receiver faults, and optimized rate-and-state parameters. After the Visso earthquakes, the more elaborate CRS model outperforms ETAS highlighting the importance of the static stress transfer for operational earthquake forecasting.
The 2016 Kumamoto earthquake, whose main shock was an M7.3 event on April 16, 2016, 28 h after a foreshock of M6.5, caused severe damage in and around Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan. It also caused postseismic hydrological changes in Kumamoto Prefecture. In this study, we analyzed daily streamflow data collected by eight observation stations from 2001 to 2017 in regions that experienced strong ground motion during the 2016 Kumamoto earthquake. We also surveyed 11 water springs in the region several times after the main shock. Streamflow had no or slight change immediately after the earthquake; however, large increases were recorded at some of the eight stations following a heavy rainfall that occurred 2 months after the earthquake. A decrease in the water-holding capacity of the catchment caused by earthquake-induced landslides can explain this delayed streamflow increase. Conversely, earthquake-related changes to the spring flow rate were not so clear. Water temperature and chemical composition of spring waters were also hardly changed. Only the concentration of NO3-, which is usually considered to be supplied from the surface, changed slightly just after the earthquake. These results show that the postseismic hydrological changes were caused mainly by earthquake-induced surface phenomena and that there was little contribution from hydrothermal fluid.
Earthquakes cannot be predicted with precision, but algorithms exist for intermediate-term middle-range prediction of main shocks above a pre-assigned threshold, based on seismicity patterns. Few years ago, a first attempt was made in the framework of project SISMA, funded by Italian Space Agency, to jointly use seismological tools, like CN algorithm and scenario earthquakes, and geodetic methods and techniques, like GPS and SAR monitoring, to effectively constrain priority areas where to concentrate prevention and seismic risk mitigation. We present a further development of integration of seismological and geodetic information, clearly showing the contribution of geodesy to the understanding and prediction of earthquakes. As a relevant application, the seismic crisis that started in Central Italy in August 2016 with the Amatrice earthquake and still going on is considered in a retrospective analysis of both GPS and SAR data. Differently from the much more common approach, here, GPS data are not used to estimate the standard 2D velocity and strain field in the area, but to reconstruct the velocity and strain pattern along transects, which are properly oriented according to the a priori information about the known tectonic setting. SAR data related to the Amatrice earthquake coseismic displacements are here used as independent check of the GPS results. Overall, the analysis of the available geodetic data indicates that it is possible to highlight the velocity variation and the related strain accumulation in the area of Amatrice event, within the area alarmed by CN since November 1st, 2012. The considered counter examples, across CN alarmed and not-alarmed areas, do not show any spatial acceleration localized trend, comparable to the one well defined along the Amatrice transect. Therefore, we show that the combined analysis of the results of intermediate-term middle-range earthquake prediction algorithms, like CN, with those from the processing of adequately dense and permanent GNSS network data, possibly complemented by a continuous InSAR tracking, may allow the routine highlight in advance of the strain accumulation. Thus, it is possible to significantly reduce the size of the CN alarmed areas.
The Lushan Ms7.0 earthquake, occurred on April 20th, 2013, is another strong earthquake that occurred on Longmen Mountain Faults after the Wenchuan Ms8.0 earthquake. In this paper we construct a finite element model depicting fault frictional mechanism to study the geodynamics of these two strong earthquakes. The locations of the initial rupture points and the dislocation forms of the Wenchuan earthquake and Lushan earthquake are simulated to find out the potential relationship between the two earthquakes. Simulative results show that the elevation, fault geometry, and the different rheological strengths between the Sichuan basin and Tibetan plateau play an important role in the earthquake dynamics. The dynamic simulation shows the initial rupture points are located at Yingxiu county and the rupture process is mainly along the northeast direction for the Wenchuan earthquake. In particular, the different frictional strengths caused by the fluid pressure decrease between the southern and northern segments of Longmenshan faults after the Wenchuan earthquake have affected the initial rupture point and the fault dislocation form of the Lushan earthquake, when considering the thrust of Tibetan plateau to Sichuan basin as the major dynamic source. (C) 2018 Institute of Seismology, China Earthquake Administration, etc. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.
Earthquake engineering normally describes earthquake activity as a Poissonian process. This approximation is simple, but not entirely satisfactory. In this paper, a method for evaluating the non-Poissonian occurrence probability of seismic events, through empirical survival probability functions, is proposed. This method takes into account the previous history of the system. It seems robust enough to be applied to scant datasets, such as the Italian historical earthquake catalog, comprising 64 events with M >= 6.00 since 1600. The requirements to apply this method are (1) an acceptable knowledge of the event rate, and (2) the timing of the last two events with magnitude above the required threshold. I also show that it is necessary to consider all the events available, which means that de-clustering is not acceptable. Whenever applied, the method yields a time-varying probability of occurrence in the area of interest. Real cases in Italy show that large events obviously tend to occur in periods of higher probability.
In China, efforts are being made to monitor geoelectric fields through a large network of stations deployed and managed by the China Earthquake Administration. The diurnal variations in the geoelectric field waveforms were similar in the quiet magnetic periods when K<5 (generally, K<3 indicates a quiet time). The arrival time points of the maxima in the geoelectric field waveforms exhibited differences in local time related to geographic longitude. The amplitude of diurnal variation was several to 16.6 mV/km and decreased with increasing latitude. Further, the amplitude of diurnal variation, which was related to seasonal changes, was larger in summer and autumn than in spring and winter. The periods of diurnal changes during quiet days were 24, 12, 8, 6, 4 hours and several minutes over large areas. Finally, the observed diurnal variations in geoelectric field prior to the Alxa Zuoqi M(S)5.8 earthquake on 15 April 2015 were studied, and pronounced changes in the spectral values of the geoelectric fields were found to be associated with the Alxa Zuoqi earthquake in Inner Mongolia.
The characteristic of near-field earthquake records has been investigated in the previous studies. However, the effects of the near-field earthquakes on the response of the building structures need to be further investigated. Engineering demand parameters like inter-story drift ratio and floor acceleration can provide a good means for comparing the response of structures to the near-field and the far-field earthquakes. The main objective of this paper was to apply these two parameters to compare the behavior of the concrete Moment Resistant Frame (MRF) subjected to near-field and far-field ground motions. In this study, non-linear numerical simulations were performed on concrete MRF office buildings subjected to two sets of 14 near-field records and 14 far-field records. The analytical models simulated 4-story, 8-story, and 16 story buildings. The obtained results indicated that the near-field effects can increase the inter-story drift ratio and floor acceleration at lower stories of low and mid-rise building subjected to high ground motion intensities.
Considering the softening characteristics of faults, a plane earthquake mechanics model of the Wenchuan earthquake instability is established, which perpendicular to the Longmenshan fault zone and includes the Sichuan Basin and the Western Sichuan Plateau. The equilibrium path curve describing the stability state and process of the whole rock mechanics system is obtained by using the finite element method. Then the process of the Wenchuan earthquake from preparation to occurrence is studied by using stability theory, and the influence of fault dip and fault material parameters on earthquake instability is discussed. The results show that the system has only two states: stable fault aseismic sliding and unstable earthquake instability. The increase of fault dip, initial internal friction coefficient, initial cohesion and shape parameters of the strength curve will lead to the instability of the system. The increase of the fatness parameter of the strength curve is helpful for the system to enter a stable state of slow and aseismic sliding of faults. Before an earthquake instability, between the peak stress point and the instability point of the equilibrium path curve, the fault dislocation accelerates, the strain energy begins to release and the stress begins to decrease, which is the precursor of the instability. Finally, a sudden stress jump occurs at the instability point and an earthquake occurs, with the rapid release of strain energy, stress drop and sudden fault dislocation. Whether it is stable fault aseismic sliding or unstable earthquake instability, after the system re-enters the state of stress and strain energy increasing, the growth rate of stress and strain energy is determined by far field loading rate, the structure of rock mechanics system and the properties of surrounding rock material, and is independent of the fault softening characteristic parameters.
We present a complete history of earthquake detection probabilities and detection completeness levels for the Japanese seismic network from 1923 to, and including, 2014 in high resolution over space and time. In our study, we employ the probability-based magnitude of completeness method developed by Schorlemmer and Woessner (2008). Using this method, for each station we derive detection capabilities over time from empirical data only, namely earthquake information, phase data, station information, and network-specific attenuation relations. From the entire phase-data history, we estimate the operational times of each station and then synthesize detection-probability maps for specific magnitudes or completeness maps. We compute these maps for every month in the period 1923-1987 and for approximately every 10 days in the period 1988-2014. We document the improvement of the Japanese seismic network from its early stage in 1923, when the network reaches completeness levels for shallow seismicity of magnitude 4 only in the wider Tokyo area, to the recent years exhibiting completeness levels of approximately magnitude 1 in all of Japan. We provide detailed completeness estimates for the eight major periods of the Japanese seismic network, defined by the types of seismometers used and the location technique employed, and show the development of completeness levels for selected regions. Finally, we discuss the effects of the 2011 Tohoku-Oki earthquake on completeness levels in Japan.
THE disasters are competent for beginning the prevalence of waterborne infections. The earthquakes are the most important disaster worldwide. Studies have reported waterborne pathogens can causing about thirty-eight types of infections after each earthquake. Also, waterborne pathogens can cause a higher fatality than an earthquake. Therefore, a strategy for prevention from infections that may occur for people is important after each earthquake. Waterborne infections were sometimes causing two folds fatalities than the earthquake. Disasters are the most important complications in developing countries for the World Health Organization (WHO). Notably, occurrences of infectious diseases after natural disasters commonly occur, especially in seismic regions. Iran is located in the Alpine-Himalayan seismic belt and considered a seismic country. The planning of an infectious disease strategy is necessary for decreasing health problems. Therefore, our aims of the present study were to introduce important bacterial waterborne infectious agents that prevalence after the previous earthquakes and explained several important relevant prevention strategies.
Seismogenesis of large earthquakes in Taiwan are often controlled by regional tectonics. Despite decades of efforts, the detailed relationship between seismogenesis of disastrous earthquakes and the geophysical properties of the earth materials remains unclear. In this study, we conduct high-resolution tomography inversion of seismic velocities (V-p and V-s) and the Poisson's ratio (sigma), and the results are used to infer the three-dimensional (3-D) distributions of crack density (epsilon) and saturation rate (zeta). We find that more than 70% of large (moment or local magnitudes >= 6, M6+) earthquakes occurred along tomographic edge zones (TEZ) within the crust where the spatial gradient exceeds 0.1, including all three disastrous events in the past two decades: the 1999 M7.6 Chi-Chi, 2016 M6.5 Meinung, and the 2018 M6.4 Hualien earthquakes. We attribute the preference of large crustal earthquakes along TEZ as the consequence of fluid migration from the more saturated side to the opposite, leading to the build-up of high pore pressure along TEZ. Locations of historical M6+ earthquakes are consistent with the inference of excessive fluids from either the extensive dehydration of hydrous minerals within the subducting Philippine Sea plate or the sedimentary compaction of alluvium and clastic deposits in the foreland basin west of the orogenic belt. Positive correlation between M6+ earthquakes and TEZ is not unique to Taiwan. Several famous earthquakes in regions with different tectonic settings appear to be associated with local TEZ. Our study could provide insights to long-term mitigation of regional seismic hazards in Taiwan and probably elsewhere.
In this study, the spatial variation mechanisms of large far-field earthquakes at engineering scales are first investigated with data from the 2008 Ms 8.0 Wenchuan earthquake. And a novel 'coherency cut-off frequency' is proposed to distinguish the spatial variations in ground motions in the low-frequency and high-frequency ranges. Then, a practical piecewise coherency model is developed to estimate and characterize the spatial variation in earthquake ground motions, including the effects of source-to-site distances, site conditions and neighboring topography on these variations. Four particular earthquake records from dense seismograph arrays are used to investigate values of the coherency cut-off frequency for different source-tosite distances. On the basis of this analysis, the model is established to simulate the spatial variations, whose parameters are suitable for both near- and far-field earthquake conditions. Simulations are conducted to validate the proposed model and method. The results show that compared to the existing models, the proposed model provides an effective method for simulating the spatial correlations of ground motions at local sites with known source-to-site distances.
As part of the effort to improve the seismic performance of buildings in Alaska (AK), many of the deficient structures in Anchorage, AK, were retrofitted-some with externally bonded fiber-reinforced polymer (EBFRP) composite systems. The 2018 magnitude 7.1 Cook Inlet earthquake that impacted the same region offered an opportunity to evaluate the performance of EBFRP retrofits in a relatively high-intensity earthquake. This study summarizes the following findings of this field investigation: (1) the performance of EBFRP-retrofitted structures in the Cook Inlet earthquake and (2) the observations concerning the condition of FRP retrofits from over a decade of exposure in a subarctic environment. A deployment team from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in collaboration with the University of Delaware (UD) Center for Composite Materials conducted post-earthquake inspections of EBFRP retrofits in multiple buildings to assess their performance during the earthquake and condition with respect to weathering. EBFRP debonding was documented with infrared thermography and acoustic sounding and the bond quality between EBFRP and concrete was assessed using pull-off tests. Visual inspections showed no major signs of earthquake damage in the EBFRP-retrofitted components. However, evaluation of debonding and pull-off test results suggested that outdoor conditions may have led to bond deterioration between EBFRP and concrete from installation defects that grew over time, freeze-thaw expansion from moisture present at the FRP/concrete interface, differences in thermal expansion of the materials, or a combination thereof. The carbon fiber-reinforced polymer (CFRP) bond to concrete was found to be more vulnerable to outdoor exposure than the glass fiber-reinforced polymer (GFRP) bond. Earthquake effects on FRP/concrete bond could not be assessed due to the lack of baseline data.
Empirical earthquake scaling relations play a central role in fundamental studies of earthquake physics and in current practice of earthquake hazard assessment, and are being refined by advances in earthquake source analysis. A scaling relation between seismic moment (M-0) and rupture area (A) currently in use for ground motion prediction in Japan features a transition regime of the form M-0-A(2), between the well-recognized small (self-similar) and very large (W-model) earthquake regimes, which has counter-intuitive attributes and uncertain theoretical underpinnings. Here, we investigate the mechanical origin of this transition regime via earthquake cycle simulations, analytical dislocation models and numerical crack models on strike-slip faults. We find that, even if stress drop is assumed constant, the properties of the transition regime are controlled by surface rupture effects, comprising an effective rupture elongation along-dip due to a mirror effect and systematic changes of the shape factor relating slip to stress drop. Based on this physical insight, we propose a simplified formula to account for these effects in M-0-A scaling relations for strike-slip earthquakes.
Aquifer hydraulic parameter can change during earthquakes. Continuous monitoring of the response of water level to seismic waves or solid Earth tides provides an opportunity to document how earthquakes influence hydrological properties. Here, we use data of two groundwater wells, Dian-22 (D22) and Lijiang (LJ) well, in southeast Tibet Plateau in response to the 2015 Mw 7.8 Gorkha earthquake to illustrate hydrological implications. The coherences of water level and seismic wave before and after the far-field earthquake show systematic variations, which may confirm the coseismic dynamic shaking influence at high frequencies (f>8 cpd). The tidal response of water levels in these wells shows abrupt coseismic changes of both phase shift and amplitude ratio after the earthquake, which may be interpreted as an occurrence in the vertical permeability of a switched semiconfined aquifer in the D22 well, or an enhancement unconfined aquifer in the LJ well. Using the continuous short-term transmissivity monitoring, we show that the possible coseismic response for about 10 days and instant healing after 10 days to the causal earthquake impact. Thus, the dynamic shaking during the Gorkha earthquake may have caused the short-term aquifer responses by reopening of preexisting vertical fractures and later healing at epicentral distances about 1500 km.
Based on the rupture model of the 2017 Jiuzhaigou M(s)7. 0 earthquake and a homogeneous elastic model in the half space, we calculated the Coulomb stress changes on the active faults near the earthquake region, the stress field, the displacement field and the static stress triggering effect on the aftershocks. Results shows that (1) the Coulomb stress increases in the middle the Huya fault, which exceeds the threshold value 0. 01 MPa, and decreases in the north of the Huya fault, the middle of the Tazang fault and the north of the Minjiang fault. So the seismic risk of the middle Huya fault should receive more attention. (2) The horizontal stress increases in the west and east of the earthquake, and decreases in the north and south of the earthquake. The principal extensional stress and the principal compressive stress are respectively like the form of a magnetic field produced by a bar magnet. (3) From the horizontal displacement on the ground, the material in the eastern and western part of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake moves towards the epicenter, and the material on both sides of the north and south of the earthquake flows outward from the epicenter. The maximum horizontal displacement at the epicenter reaches 43 mm. From the vertical displacement field, there are obvious uplift in the north and south sides of the epicenter with a maximum of 56. 8 mm. There is also obvious subsidence in the east and west sides of the epicenter with a maximum of 74. 5 mm. From the displacement profile, the Jiuzhaigou earthquake is a left-lateral strike-slip event with a certain normal faulting component. At depths of 22 similar to 26 km, the fault is stopped. We hypothesize that the material of footwall of the fault provided the driving force for the movement, which is in the NEE direction of the earthquake (Sichuan block), and at the depth between 6 similar to 30 km. The hanging wall of the fault provided the kinetic energy for movement, which is in the NWW direction of the earthquake (Bayankala block), and at the depth between 0 similar to 6 km. (4) Calculation of the triggering effect of the main earthquake on the aftershocks shows that the largest aftershock was triggered by the main shock, and most other aftershocks were also triggered by the main shock. In the region of increasing Coulomb stress, there are more aftershocks. In the area of the Coulomb stress reduction, the aftershocks are relatively fewer.
Pipelines are lifeline structures, as any significant disruption to the performance of these systems often translates into undesirable impacts on the economics and the living conditions of citizens. It is important to maintain the integrity of pipelines during severe natural hazards such as earthquakes. Prior observations have indicated that pipelines are highly vulnerable to earthquakes, and therefore the seismic behavior of pipelines has attracted great attention from researchers over the years. This paper presents a detailed review of the response of pipelines in previous major earthquakes with an emphasis on various seismic hazards, associated failure modes, and extent of pipeline failures in the last 110years (1906-2016). In addition, the paper draws attention to the lessons learnt from the earthquakes that led to the development of seismic design criteria for pipelines. A state-of-the-art review on seismic fragility estimation for buried pipelines is presented along with a comparative study of existing fragility formulations. Also, the paper presents a brief review of different seismic mitigation techniques used in practice. Based on the review, areas of concern are identified, and the future direction for research is highlighted. (C) 2018 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Bearing strength surfaces, the locus of all combinations of vertical load, horizontal shear and moment that can induce shallow foundation bearing failure, can assist in envisaging the response of shallow foundations to general loading. Additionally, however, there is the question of the effect of earthquake loading on foundation bearing strength. Several researchers have investigated this from the perspective of the vertical capacity of the foundation. Not surprisingly, all show that the bearing strength under vertical load is reduced by inertia loads in the soil beneath the foundation. Somewhat surprisingly, these results are not directly relevant to the earthquake bearing strength calculations for shallow foundations, as the important role of the static actions sustained by the foundation prior to the earthquake may be overlooked. This technical note shows, using the bearing strength surfaces given in Part 5 of Eurocode 8, how it is that shallow foundation bearing strength for cohesive soils is not sensitive to the earthquake horizontal acceleration, but dry cohesionless soil may be more susceptible.
Global Positioning System (GPS) Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS) data analysis shows that the ionosphere's electron density variability is linked to the deformation and stress accumulation in the Earth's crust. Anomalies in ionosphere total electron content (TEC) variability before 2021 M6.4 Sonitpur, Assam earthquake were detected using L1 and L2 GPS frequencies that showed three distinct abnormalities on April 3, 9, 10, 2021. Pearson's correlation coefficient (r) of TEC decreases in the CORS that lies away from the earthquake epicenter, indicating the possibilities of a positive relationship between TEC variability and earthquake epicenter. TEC concentration also decreases towards the epicenter within the earthquake preparation zone (EPZ). It is also observed that the Pearson's correlation coefficient (r) of TEC decreases linearly near the EPZ. The study demonstrates the possibilities of determining the TEC anomalous zone in the ionosphere that coincides with the EPZ in the crustal rocks. The research indicated the possibilities of magnitude estimation of an impending earthquake based on the TEC anomalous zone in the ionosphere using closely spaced dense CORS network data. (C) 2022 Editorial office of Geodesy and Geodynamics. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
Earthquakes are one of the most costly natural disasters facing human beings, which happens without an explicit warning, therefore earthquake prediction becomes a very important and challenging task for humanity. Although many existing methods attempt to address this task, most of them use either seismic indicators (explicit features) designed by geologists, or feature vectors (implicit features) extracted by deep learning methods, to characterize an earthquake 14 earthquake prediction. The problem of combining these two kind of features to improve final earthquake prediction performance remains pretty much open. To this end, we propose a deep learning model named DEEP to effectively fuse the explicit and implicit features for accurate earthquake prediction. In DEEP, we adopt eight precursory pattern-based indicators as the explicit features, and use a convolutional neural network (CNN) to extract implicit features. Then, an attention-based strategy is suggested to fuse these two kinds of features well. In addition, a dynamic loss function is designed to deal with the category imbalance of seismic data. Finally, experimental results on eight datasets from different regions demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed DLEP for earthquake prediction comparing to several state-of-the-art baselines.
According to volume 18 (Xuanzong Ji Tang) of the historical book entitled the Old Book of Tang, the Hetao area of Inner Mongolia experienced a large earthquake in AD 849. However, previous work on that earthquake contains many discrepancies regarding its epicenter location, magnitude, deaths, and intensity. While exploring active faults in Baotou City, the present authors mapped the Daqing Mountain piedmont fault geologically. Based on previous work, several seismic deformation traces of more than 1000 years ago were found, and dating tests were conducted. The research showed the Daqing Mountain piedmont fault zone to be the seismogenic structure of the AD 849 earthquake. The length of earthquake surface rupture zone was around 80 km, and the macro epicenter was located in the active fault. The deformation center was located at 40.6 degrees N, 110.2 degrees E. By collecting and analyzing more historical data about the AD 849 earthquake, reinterpreting some existing historical data, and re-examining the contradictory numbers of deaths in the historical data, the present analysis concludes that around 10,000 people were dead. It is suggested that this earthquake had a magnitude of 7 1/2. According to the revised seismic parameters and the paleoearthquake recurrence period of the Daqing Mountain piedmont fault, the boundary of some potential seismic sources zone in the Baotou area are adjusted and the recurrence period of M8 and M7.5 are re-calculated.
Hazard reduction policies include seismic hazard maps based on probabilistic evaluations and the evaluation of geophysical parameters continuously recorded by instrumental networks. Over the past 25 centuries, a large amount of information about earthquake precursory phenomena has been recorded by scholars, scientific institutions, and civil defense agencies. In particular, hydrogeologic measurements and geochemical analyses have been performed in geofluids in search of possible and reliable earthquake precursors. Controlled experimental areas have been set up to investigate physical and chemical mechanisms originating possible preseismic precursory signals. The main test sites for such research are located in China, Iceland, Japan, the Russian Federation, Taiwan, and the USA. The present state of the art about the most relevant scientific achievements has been described. Future research trends and possible development paths have been identified and allow for possible improvements in policies oriented to seismic hazard reduction by geofluid monitoring.
Infrasound signals associated with the 29 May 2004 offshore Uljin earthquake (Mw 5.1) were recorded at infrasound arrays of CHNAR (epicentral distance of 321 km) and TJNAR (256 km). Back-azimuths, indicating the directions to source locations, varied more than 28 degrees broadly for the long-lasting signals over several minutes. From the analysis of the back-projecting location method and attenuation correction for infrasound propagation, the infrasound waves were to be generated by the interaction (diffraction) between seismic waves and topography in an area of similar to 4,600 km(2) connecting the Samcheok-Uljin-Pohang regions. The maximum sound source pressure (BSP) was estimated to be 11.1 Pa. This result was consistent with the peak sound pressure (PSP) calculated by the Rayleigh integral approximation to the peak ground acceleration (PGA) dataset. In addition, the minimum PGA that was detectable at the two arrays was estimated to be similar to 3.0 cm s(-2). Although the earthquake occurred offshore, diffracted infrasound signals were effectively generated by ground motions when seismic surface waves passed through high-topographic regions in the eastern Korean Peninsula. The relationship between infrasound source pressure and PGA can be applicable to characterize the ground motions in areas with insufficient seismological observatories.
On 25 November 2016 (14:24:30 UTC), an Mw6.6 earthquake occurred in Aketao county of Xinjiang. We derived the coseismic deformation field of the earthquake from ESA's Sentinel-1B images and inverted the fault geometry and slip distribution by using a homogenous half-space elastic model and the Steepest Decent Method (SDM) program. The slip model shows that the rupture plane is about 68 km in length and 40 km in width and has an average strike of 105.2 degrees SE and an average dip of 76.0 degrees S. The average amount of slip is similar to 0.16 m and the maximum amount of slip is 0.59 m. The estimated seismic moment is 1.31 x 10(19 )N.m and the corresponding moment magnitude is Mw6.68. The dislocation is mainly distributed in the depth of 5-22 km, where the rupture center is located at 39.17 degrees E, 74.38 degrees N, and a depth of similar to 8.8 km, so this earthquake is a shallow earthquake. In terms of the tectonic settings, the earthquake was triggered by the release of residual stresses on the seismogenic Muji fault. The ruptures were stimulated simultaneously by the main shock, which made the slip distribution pattern of a strike-slip fault with a double fracture. Due to the tectonic setting and the seismic gap between the ruptures, the Muji fault would have a risk of rupture to some extent and trigger an earthquake in future. (C) 2018 Institute of Seismology, China Earthquake Administration, etc. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.
Post-earthquake crisis management is a key capability for a country to be able to recover after a major seismic event. Instrumental seismic data transmitted and processed in a very short time can contribute to better management of the emergency and can give insights on the earthquake' s impact on a specific area. Romania is a country with a high seismic hazard, mostly due to the Vrancea intermediate-depth earthquakes. The elastic acceleration response spectrum of a seismic motion provides important information on the level of maximum acceleration the buildings were subjected to. Based on new data analysis and knowledge advancements, the acceleration elastic response spectrum for horizontal ground components recommended by the Romanian seismic codes has been evolving over the last six decades. This study aims to propose a framework for post-earthquake warning based on code spectrum exceedances. A comprehensive background analysis was undertaken using strong motion data from previous earthquakes corroborated with observational damage, to prove the method's applicability. Moreover, a case-study for two densely populated Romanian cities (Focsani and Bucharest) is presented, using data from a 5.5 M-w earthquake (October 28, 2018) and considering the evolution of the three generations of code-based spectral levels for the two cities. Data recorded in free-field and in buildings were analyzed and has confirmed that no structural damage occurred within the two cities. For future strong seismic events, this tool can provide useful information on the effect of the earthquake on structures in the most exposed areas.
Long-term seismicity in a certain region can be estimated from the number of felt earthquakes obtained from seismic intensity measurements or historical documents. To obtain a homogeneous estimate, continuous records with a uniform detection threshold are required. Seismic intensity data in Tokyo, which are measured by professional observers and archived by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) since 1885, indicate that the mean annual number of felt earthquakes with intensities >= 1 and >= 2 on the JMA scale is 45 and 14, respectively. The database of felt earthquakes can be extended back to more than 200 yr using historical daily records. During the Edo period from 1603 to 1867, numerous historical documents in Edo (former Tokyo) recorded information about damaging earthquakes, such as the 1703 Kanto earthquake and the 1855 Edo earthquake. Several feudal clans documented daily weather and felt earthquakes in Edo. Among them, daily records documented by the Tsugaru and Sakakibara clans cover a period of similar to 200 yr. Although these records do not cover the entire period and weather reports for several years are missing, the Tsugaru and Sakakibara clans documented similar to 1600 and similar to 700 earthquakes, respectively. Using these data, we determined that a total of similar to 2000 felt earthquakes occurred between 1668 and 1867, thereby yielding a mean rate of similar to 10 earthquakes per year. When we exclude the missing period of daily records, the average rate increased to 11 per year, which is similar to the annual number of earthquakes with seismic intensities >= 2 in the modern JMA record. These data of felt earthquakes in Tokyo are considered to be more homogeneous than the previous estimates, although the total number is smaller, and can be used to study the long-term seismicity rate change.
In this study, the effect of using separators in concrete reservoirs for the storage of drinking water has been investigated. In general, there are various methods for designing the resistance of these instruments to earthquakes; one is a highly resistant structure so that they can withstand the earthquake-induced forces and resist earthquake, and secondly, it protects the separation of the anti-seismic which is by separation from the base. Air tanks are among the most important urban water utilities that must use their own after an earthquake to provide water and fire. Due to the concentration of a significant part of the mass of the structure, which is located at a relatively high level, it is more likely to be vulnerable to earthquake provocations. In the present study, a 1000-meth cubic meter of concrete concrete reservoir installed on the floor of the insulator has been investigated under the effect of accelerating the equivalent of three earthquakes Kobe, Loma Prieta and Nortrij. And the results indicate that seismic separators have an effect on reducing accelerations to the structure by up to 20% in proportion to the inclined state and reducing stresses to the structure by 50%.
In June 2000, two Mw6.5 earthquakes occurred within a 4-day interval in the largest agricultural region of Iceland causing substantial damage and no loss of life. The distance between the earthquake epicentres and the fault rupture was approximately 15km. Nearly 5000 low-rise residential buildings were affected, some of which were located between the faults and exposed to strong ground motion from both events. The post-earthquakes damage and repair costs for every residential building in the epicentral region were assessed for insurance purposes. The database is detailed and complete for the whole region and represents one of the best quality post-earthquake vulnerability datasets used for seismic loss estimation. Nonetheless, the construction of vulnerability curves from this database is hampered by the fact that the loss values represent the cumulative damage from two sequential earthquakes in some areas, and single earthquakes in others. A novel methodology based on beta regression is proposed here in order to define the geographical limits on areas where buildings sustained cumulative damage and predict the seismic losses for future sequence of events in each area. The results show that the average building loss in areas affected by a single event is below 10% of the building replacement value, whilst this increases to an average of 25% in areas affected by the two earthquakes. The proposed methodology can be used to empirically assess the vulnerability in other areas which experienced sequence of events such as Emilia-Romagna (Italy) in 2012.
On the Longmen Shan thrust belt (LMS) on the eastern margin of Tibet Plateau, the Mw7.9 Wenchuan earthquake occurred in 2008. As for the dynamic cause of the Wenchuan earthquake, many scholars have studied the rheological difference and terrain elevation difference on both sides of the fault. However, previous studies have simplified the LMS as a single listric-reverse fault. In fact, the LMS is composed of four faults with different dip angles in the shallow part, and the faults are Wenchuan-Maoxian fault (WMF), Yingxiu-Beichuan fault (YBF), Guanxian-Jiangyou fault (GJF) and Range Front Thrust (RFT) from west to east. However, the control of the branching structure of these faults on the distribution and accumulation of stress and strain during the seismogenic of the Wenchuan earthquake has not been discussed. In this paper, four viscoelastic finite element models with different fault numbers and combination structures are built to analyze the effect of fault branching structures on the stress distribution and accumulation during the seismogenic of Wenchuan earthquake, and we use geodetic data such as GPS and precise leveling data to constrain our models. At the same time, we also study the influence of the existence of the detachment layer, which is formed by the low-resistivity and low-velocity layer, between the upper and lower crust of the Bayan Har block and the change of its frontal edge position on the stress accumulation and distribution. The results show that the combinations of YBF and GJF is most conducive to the concentration of equivalent stress below the intersection of the two faults, and the accumulated stress on GJF is shallower than that on YBF, which means that more stress is transferred to the surface along GJF; and the existence of a detachment layer can effectively promote the accumulation of stress at the bottom of YBF and GJF, and the closer the frontal edge position of the detachment layer is to the LMS fault, the more favorable the stress accumulation is. Based on the magnitude of stress accumulation at the bottom of the intersection of YBF and GJF, we speculate that the frontal edge position of the detachment layer may cross YBF and expand eastward.
In this paper, we use the synthetic control method to estimate the macroeconomic losses from the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, one of the most severe natural disasters in the modern era. The macroeconomic effects of the earthquake were equal to an average loss of up to 12% of gross domestic product over the period 2010-2015. While surges in imports and foreign aid supported a temporary increase in aggregate consumption, aggregate investment and services sector output experienced large contractions. The road transport sector was severely affected. Impacts on electricity use have been less pronounced. The data suggest that macroeconomic losses may be permanent. The earthquake is thus a case of an extreme natural disaster contributing to divergence in development outcomes.
Earthquake deformation is crucial for understanding fault kinematics. Modern earthquakes (moment magnitude $M_{w} >= 6$ ) have been well documented by geodetic techniques, such as radar interferometry and image correlation with unprecedented accuracy. Nonetheless, many large ( $M_{w} >= 7$ ) historical earthquakes remain unexplored due to a lack of preearthquake data. In this article, we provide the first study of using Hexagon KeyHole-9 (KH-9) panoramic imagery to investigate historical earthquakes. We propose patch-based orthorectification and test the method from analog experiments with unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) photographs. Using the 2013 $M_{w}$ 7.7 Balochistan as a case example, we demonstrate that KH-9 images can be used to retrieve meter-scale horizontal deformation. The displacements, derived from correlating KH-9 (preearthquake) and Sentinel-2 (postearthquake) images, are comparable with published studies. Applying the method to the 1981 $M_{w}$ 7.1 Sirch earthquake, we succeed to measure NS strike-slip motion (up to 5.9 +/- 1.6 m) along the 1981 rupture and find that most of the accumulated strain energy may be released by motion along a 25-km-long segment of the Gowk fault. The southward propagation of the rupture may be prevented by the earlier $M_{w}$ 6.6 Golbaf earthquake that released most of the accumulated strain in the south. The rapid decay of slip in the north seems to be associated with a 3-km-long, 1-km-wide step-over, which may have dissipated a large fraction of seismic energy. The KH-9 panoramic images show great potential for determining horizontal deformation, providing useful information about historical earthquakes that occurred before the era of modern geodesy.
While modern seismic design codes intend to ensure life-safety in extreme earthquakes, policy-makers are moving toward performance objectives stated in terms of acceptable recovery times. This article describes a framework to probabilistically model the post-earthquake recovery of buildings and provide quantitative seismic performance measures, expressed in terms of downtime, that are useful for decision-making. Downtime estimates include the time for mobilizing resources after an earthquake and conduct necessary repairs. The proposed framework advances the well-established Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) P-58 and Resilience-based Earthquake Design initiative (REDi) methodologies by modeling temporal building recovery trajectories to target recovery states, such as stability, shelter-in-place, reoccupancy, and functional recovery. The shelter-in-place recovery state accounts for relaxed post-earthquake habitability standards, in contrast with the reoccupancy recovery state that relates to pre-event habitability criteria. Analogous to safety-based codes, which specify a threshold for the probability of collapse under a given ground motion shaking intensity, this framework permits evaluating the probability of a building not achieving a target recovery state, for example, shelter-in-place, immediately after an earthquake, or, alternatively, the probability of achieving a target recovery state, for example, functional recovery, within a specified time frame. The proposed framework is implemented to evaluate a modern 12-story residential reinforced concrete shear wall building in Seattle, WA. The assessment results indicate that under a functional-level earthquake (roughly equivalent to ground motion shaking with a return period of 475 years), the probability of not achieving shelter-in-place immediately after the earthquake is 22%, and the probability of downtime to functional recovery exceeding 4 months is 88%, which far exceeds acceptable thresholds suggested in the 2015 National Earthquake Hazards Reductions Program (NEHRP) guidelines and FEMA P-2090.
The 2016 Ecuador earthquake ruptured the Ecuador-Colombia subduction interface where several historic megathrust earthquakes had occurred. In order to determine a detailed rupture model, Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) images and teleseismic data sets were objectively weighted by using a modified Akaika's Bayesian Information Criterion (ABIC) method to jointly invert for the rupture process of the earthquake. In modeling the rupture process, a constrained waveform length method, unlike the traditional subjective selected waveform length method, was used since the lengths of inverted waveforms were strictly constrained by the rupture velocity and rise time (the slip duration time). The optimal rupture velocity and rise time of the earthquake were estimated from grid search, which were determined to be 2.0 km/s and 20 s, respectively. The inverted model shows that the event is dominated by thrust movement and the released moment is 5.75 x 10(20) Nm (Mw 7.77). The slip distribution extends southward along the Ecuador coast line in an elongated stripe at a depth between 10 and 25 km. The slip model is composed of two asperities and slipped over 4 m. The source time function is approximate 80 s that separated into two segments corresponding to the two asperities. The small magnitude of the slip occurred in the updip section of the fault plane resulted in small tsunami waves that were verified by observations near the coast. We suggest a possible situation that the rupture zone of the 2016 earthquake is likely not overlapped with that of the 1942 earthquake.
The 'Every Earthquake a Precursor According to Scale' (EEPAS) model treats every earthquake as a precursor of larger earthquakes to follow it within a time-span ranging from months to decades, depending on magnitude. Each earthquake contributes a transient increment to the expected rate of earthquake occurrence in its vicinity, based on empirical predictive scaling relations associated with the precursory scale increase phenomenon. Incomplete information on precursory earthquakes causes the EEPAS model to underpredict the expected number of earthquakes, in particular when forecasting across a time-lag for periods beginning several years ahead. We demonstrate how the model can be modified to compensate for such time-lags when calculating future forecasts. Given the model parameters, the completeness of precursory information can be expressed as a function of the target earthquake magnitude and the time-lag. We consider two end-members for compensating the model for incompleteness. In one end-member, only the background smoothed-seismicity component of the EEPAS model is compensated, in the other, only the time-varying component of the EEPAS model is compensated. We estimate an optimal mixture of these two end-members for time-lags out to 12 yr, using several different versions of the EEPAS model and subsets of the New Zealand earthquake catalogue to which the models were previously fitted. Performance is checked on an independent test period. The optimal compensated model has increasingly high information gains over the original EEPAS model with increasing time-lags. Using catalogue data complete to 2018, the compensated models forecast increased annual probabilities of earthquake occurrence above magnitude thresholds from 6.0 to 8.0 in central New Zealand in the period 2019-2030 relative to the preceding period 2008-2018.
In this study, we investigate a little-known earthquake that struck Cascia and its environs (Central Italian Apennines) in 1599, causing 50 casualties and the destruction and abandonment of several settlements. As in current seismic catalogues the characterization of this event is based on the anonymous account of a single source, we conducted research using public and private archives and libraries that allow recovering many unpublished contemporary accounts of the earthquake. This information permitted a more detailed evaluation of the macroseismic effects and a doubling of the number of intensity datapoints, resulting in a more robust earthquake epicentral parameters. Next, we conducted a geological field survey within the newly defined mesoseismic area aimed at finding possible evidence of active tectonics, likely faults with indications of recent movements and with an attitude fitting both the 1599 highest intensity distribution and the regional stress field. We found evidence for Holocene surface faulting along the Cascia and Mount Alvagnano faults that we consider responsible for the 1599 earthquake, and possibly also for a twin event in 1979 and the much stronger Norcia earthquake in 1703.
We have examined the water level data from 16 wells in Sichuan province, China, recorded before the Wenchuan Ms8.0 earthquake occurred in 2008. We found that the data of 5 among these wells exhibit possible precursory anomalies, which are respectively named the Chuan No.08 well in Deyang, Chuan No.11 well in Pujiang, Chuan No.13 well in Luzhou, Chuan No.22 well in Qionglai and Beichuan. In time durations, these anomalies are of long-, intermediate- and short-term signals which are primarily distributed on the northeast (NE) trending Longmenshan fault zone as well as the parallel Huayingshan fault zone. It seems that the variations of the well levels on the Huayingshan fault zone imply compression while those on the Longmenshan fault zone reflect extension. These anomalies occurred first in the areas outside the epicenter region of the Wenchuan Ms8.0 earthquake, then migrated to the seismogenic fault zone. And they migrated from southwest to northeast in agreement with the rupture process of the main shock. (C) 2020 Institute of Seismology, China Earthquake Administration, etc. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co., Ltd.
There has been much interest in studying quasi-periodic events on earthquake models. Here we investigate quasi-periodic events in the avalanche time series on structured earthquake models by the analysis of the autocorrelation function and the fast Fourier transform. For random spatial earthquake models, quasi-periodic events are robust and we obtain a simple rule for a period that is proportional to the choice of unit time and the dissipation of the system. Moreover, computer simulations validate this rule for two-dimensional lattice models and cycle graphs, but our simulation results also show that small-world models, scale-free models, and random rule graphs do not have periodic phenomena. Although the periodicity of avalanche does not depend on the criticality of the system or the average degree of the system or the size of the system, there is evidence that it depends on the time series of the average force of the system.
The seismotectonically induced changes in groundwater radon (Rn) are considered to be strong imputes for the surveillance of imminent major earthquakes. Groundwater facilitates the migration of soil gases as a result of tectonic stresses. In this regard, a radon time series is statistically analysed to identify the radon anomalies possibly induced by Wenchuan earthquake. The statistical analysis mainly involves the deterministic analysis of the Rn data and residual Rn analysis using a criterion (x) +/- 2 sigma of anomaly selection having a confidence interval of 95%. The deterministic analysis reveals that the Rn time series follows a persistent trend (0.5 <= H <= 1 which confirms the absence of a chaotic regime. On the other hand, the residual Rn shows a notable upsurge straddling the time of the Wenchuan earthquake in the form of pre- and post earthquake changes at monitoring stations having RE/RD <= 0.3. The residual Rn level passes the anomaly selection criterion (x) +/- 2 sigma and is declared as a tectonically induced Rn anomaly. Contrary to this, the response of distant monitoring stations (RE/RD>0.3) to this particular earthquake further validates the link between Rn and earthquake activity. In a nutshell, the present study highlights the potential implications of earthquake-induced radon anomalies for earthquake prediction research.
Landslides induced by strong earthquakes often destroy large amounts of landscape vegetation which can trigger significant changes in runoff potential and flood flow. Little is known about hydrological behaviours imposed by co-seismic landslides and their post-earthquake evolution. Therefore, we collected time-series datasets (2007-2018) of underlying surface conditions (USC) changes including landslide expansion and recovery in a watershed affected by the Wenchuan earthquake to further quantify howthe large physical disturbance affected the flood hydrological behaviours. The hydrological model HEC-HMS was calibrated and validated to predict the historical hydrological behaviours based on 5 min time-series data in rainfalls and streamflow (2018-2019), showing a good model performance with a mean Nash-Sutcliffe efficiency of 0.76. It was found that, shortly after the earthquake, the sharp expansion with 11% of landslide areas elevated the magnitudes of runoff potential, peak discharge, and runoff volume by >10%, and the peak to time for the high-magnitude flood was advanced by 25 min compared to the pre-earthquake levels. The tipping point along the hydrological disturbance-recovery trajectory was detected within 2011with higher flood peaks and volumes, and the periods of 2011-2013 (i.e. 3-5 years post-earthquake) were deemed to be a rapid recovery period, revealing an unstable hydrological function. These findings are significant for clearly understanding the magnitude and timing, aswell as greater risks of post-earthquake catastrophic flooding in earthquake-stricken regions. Additionally, the post-earthquake accompanied rainstorm-induced geohazards, which limited the recovery of landscape vegetation, triggering an undulant but clear recovery process (1-7 years post-earthquake) of hydrological behaviours. These findings promoted our understanding of the spatiotemporal evolution of hydrological behaviours triggered by the earthquake, and further contribute to the development of adaptation andmitigation strategies for the unpredictable flash floods triggered by future abrupt natural hazards in earthquake-affected regions. (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier B.V.
To predict the impact of the rescue work on the casualties after the earthquake, a seismic casualty prediction method that comprehensively considers the burial situation and the rescue process is constructed. In this method, a seismic network model based on the graph theory method is built, then the burial situation on an area of after an earthquake can be quickly calculated by using the calculation method of casualty rate based on the building damage rate. Finally, the optimal rescue plan can be obtained by solving the objective function of the seismic network model through the genetic algorithm. Taking the 1100 campus of University of Shanghai for Science and Technology as a case, the burial situation and the casualties under the influence of the rescue work are analyzed after assuming a.-degree earthquake occurs on this area, based on which an optimal rescue plan is proposed. After that, by comparing with two shortest path methods, the superiority of the proposed method is highlighted. This method can be used as the basis for regional earthquake risk assessment and emergency rescue plans establishment, and it can also be used as a tool for generating optimal rescue routes after the earthquake.
The pattern and level of damage during the 2017 Morelos-Puebla (Mw7.1) earthquake in central Mexico differ from those observed during the 1999 Tehuacan (Mw6.9) earthquake. Although these two intraslab events had similar magnitudes and depths, 57 km and 60 km respectively, the 2017 earthquake caused significantly more damage in central Mexico. The epicenters of the two events were separated by 127 km. From the analysis of strong-motion recordings in central Mexico, we find that the areas within different PGA and PGV contours during the two earthquakes are roughly equal. For example, PGA contour of 150 cm/s 2 encloses 12,700 km2 and 15,400 km2 during the 1999 and 2017 events, respectively. The shape of the contours and the location of the epicenter suggests a bilateral rupture during the 2017 earthquake and a rupture directivity to the north for the 1999 earthquake. Spectral ratios of the two earthquakes reveal a more energetic 1999 source to the north than that of 2017 which is consistent with the previously reported rupture directivity. This leads us to conclude that the distinct locations of the two earthquakes along with uneven density of population, dwellings, and historical monuments, and demographic increase since 1999 were the principal causes of the difference in damage during the two earthquakes.
Objective Iran, in terms of disasters, is among the top 10 countries in the world. Therefore, timely coordination and provision of rescue, transport, and treatment services after disasters are of particular importance. This study aimed to investigate and provide a short report on the provision of rescue, transport, and treatment services after the 2017 earthquake in Kermanshah. Methods This was a review and a descriptive study conducted using the analysis of documents and news published on valid Iranian sites and reports of some service providers in 2017 after the earthquake in Kermanshah. Results The most important strengths of post-earthquake services were the military force's cooperation, people's support, sending the popular aid and donations to earthquake areas, and the tremendous national support and religious sympathy among the people. Sending the popular aid and donations was such that they resulted in the blockage of communication routes, heavy traffic on the roads, and disrupted the relief and rescue efforts process. However, the most important weaknesses in the provision of services after this earthquake were the lack of preparedness of the government systems and the lack of orderly management for appropriate assistance and relief and, therefore, there was an inappropriate distribution of popular aid and donations among the earthquake victims. Conclusion Proper coordination and service delivery after unexpected events in Iran have a considerable distance to reaching the desired point. Unfortunately, similar problems had also occurred in other earthquakes such as the Bam and Rudbar earthquakes. The repetition of these problems indicates the authorities' lack of readiness and commitment to troubleshoot weaknesses in their emergency response plan. Therefore, it is necessary for government officials to have more preparedness in all related affairs and aspects. (Disaster Med Public Health Preparedness. 2019;13:691-694)
On September 28th, 2018, a supershear earthquake of moment magnitude (Mw) 7.5 struck the Palu area in central Sulawesi, Indonesia. To gain insight into landslides triggered by the Palu earthquake, a detailed landslide interpretation project was carried out in the meizoseismal area. To establish a co-seismic landslide inventory, we collected high-resolution images, including Worldview pre- and post- earthquake images, Sentinel pre- and post-earthquake images and Google Earth pre- and post- earthquake images. The results show that the Palu event triggered at least 7063 co-seismic landslides, including 8 flowslides. The total landslide area is 29.7 km(2), with the highest density being 96 landslides/km(2). The rock type (Kambuno granite) is a dominant factor influencing the landslide distribution; the average landslide H/L (H is the fall height and L is the horizontal length of an entire landslide) is 0.56. The flowslides that occurred in the Palu Basin are seismic liquefaction-induced landslides that failed along very gentle slopes (generally, slopes that are <3 degrees) and traveled hundreds to thousands of meters, and the average H/L was 0.021.
This study explores whether the degree of central bank independence influences the economic performance in the period immediately following an earthquake. Earthquakes create a classic monetary policy challenge: how to accommodate the real shock in the short run with the objective of low inflation. The ultimate outcome of this dilemma depends for a large part on the degree of delegation of the monetary powers to an independent central bank and the inflation averseness of the central bank governors. Our main empirical findings clearly indicate that the increase in the inflation rate after an earthquake is significantly smaller when monetary policy is conducted by a more independent central bank. At the same time, countries with an independent central bank are confronted with a wider output gap after an earthquake suggesting a slower economic recovery.
On May 5, 2014, an earthquake with a magnitude of Mw 6.1 (the largest earthquake in Thailand so far) occurred in Chiang Rai of the Golden Triangle area in northern Thailand. We had an opportunity to conduct field survey immediately after the earthquake. Serious damage to buildings and casualties of lives were observed, and the estimated Maximum Mercalli Intensity (MMI) of the earthquake is VIII (evaluated according to the MMI scale of the Chinese Standard). No long continuous ground ruptures were produced during the earthquake, but in the epicenter (commonly within MMI VIII extent), massive small linear ruptures (usually several tens of meters long) developed and displayed intriguing structural features, offsetting many roads several centimeters left laterally on NE trending cracks or offsetting right laterally on NW trending ones. The focal mechanism solution of earthquake shows that this is a pure strike-slip event, and two nodal planes in NW and NE directions had the same motion senses respectively as those of breakage associated with the earthquake. The long axis of the isoseismals and aftershock distributions are in NE direction, which is consistent with the strike of Luang Namtha fault. The 230-km-long Luang Namtha fault which starts from the border of China and Laos, runs through northern Laos, and terminates at Chiang Rai of Thailand is predominated by left-lateral strike-slip and active in late Quaternary, and two earthquakes over Ms 6.0 occurred along the fault in 1925 and 2007 respectively. This Mw 6.1 earthquake occurred at the southwestern end of the fault. All related features such as evident structural rupturing, elongated orientation of MMI and aftershock distribution, as well as the location of the epicenter, suggest that the Luang Namtha fault may be responsible for the 2014 Northern Thailand earthquake.
The complexity of the coseismic rupture process of active thrust faults and the limitation of the 3D geometry of the fault plane play important roles in seismic risk assessment. The 2020 M-w 6.0 Jiashi earthquake is an example of seismic events that have occurred in the Kepingtage fold-and-thrust belt (FTB) in the southern Tian Shan belt. Integrated analysis of surface geology, topography, and seismic reflection profiles has delineated the surface and subsurface geometries of the Keping thrust fault (KPT). Combined with the focal mechanism, seismic reflection profiles, and Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar coseismic deformation, we are able to reveal the seismogenic structure of this earthquake. The Jiashi event was mainly a horizontal compression deformation; the sliding distribution was concentrated at a depth of 4-6 km, and the fault-slip angle was similar to 15 degrees. Our results show that the seismogenic structure of the Jiashi event was the KPT at the leading edge of the Kepingtage FTB. The fault plane is separated at depth by a horizontal detachment, with an upper (similar to 30 degrees) and lower (similar to 15 degrees) ramp. The coseismic rupture of the Jiashi event was constrained within the lower ramp. This event is a good example that readily explains why the Kepingtage FTB is characterized by moderate-magnitude (M-w 6.0-6.5) events.
2017 Pohang earthquake (M 5.4) was more disastrous than 2016 Gyeongju earthquake (M 5.8), partly because of its shallow focal depth. However, precise focal depth of Pohang earthquake is still controversial. Close crustal model showed 6 similar to 11.5 km in relocation depth, whereas other models showed almost surface range. Geothermal study indicated temperature of 300 degrees C at depth of 7.5 km. Related with observations of seismogenic layer, the focal depth of Pohang earthquake seems to be 7 km depth as obtained by close model.
Earthquake-induced landslides are difficult to assess and predict owing to the inherent unpredictability of earthquakes. In most existing studies, the landslide potential is statistically assessed by collecting and analyzing the data of historical landslide events and earthquake observation records. Unlike rainfall-induced landslides, earthquake-induced landslides cannot be predicted in advance using real-time monitoring systems, and the development of the models for these landslides should instead depend on early earthquake warnings and estimations. Hence, in this study, factor analysis was performed and the frequency distribution method was employed to investigate the potential risk of the landslides caused by earthquakes. Factors such as the slope gradient, lithology (geology), aspect, and elevation were selected and classified as influential factors to facilitate the construction of a landslide database for the area of study.
This paper investigates fire department response time to locations of ignition after an earthquake and proposes a framework to identify vulnerable areas in a community by considering both the likelihood of ignition and potential delays in response of the fire department. Delays are calculated as a function of bridge damage and blocked roadways due to building debris. Uncertainty in bridge performance and debris accumulation are incorporated into the analysis. The framework is applied to a case study to demonstrate how the proposed work can be used to plan fire department resources, and minimize losses from postearthquake fires.
In this research, the nonlinear behaviors of dams under earthquake excitation are analyzed. Nonlinear model of dams are established based on energy equations. Nonlinear behavior such as periodic, quasi-periodic, and chaotic responses are determined based on phase diagrams and Poincare maps. Mover, with the utilization of proposed Periodicity-Ratio (P-R) method, the nonlinear behaviors are diagnosed within large rang of system parameters, which may provide guidance for the design of geometric parameters of a dam subjected to earthquake excitations.
On 12 September 2016, M-L 5.1 (foreshock) and M-L 5.8 (mainshock) earthquakes occurred about 48 minutes apart in the historic city of Gyeongju. Among the numerous aftershocks within the Yangsan Fault System, the largest aftershock of ML 4.5 occurred on 19 September 2016. In particular, the M-L 5.8 earthquake with the focal depth of 13 km is the largest seismic event observed in South Korea since instrumental earthquake monitoring began in 1978. Up to now (January 2018), more than 600 aftershocks (> M-L 1.5) have followed. The focal mechanism showed a right-lateral strike-slip fault plane with a strike of 26 degrees (or 118 degrees), a dip of 68 degrees (or 85 degrees), a rake of 175 degrees (22 degrees), and the moment magnitude (M-W) was deduced into M-W 5.5. The strikes of major events match the trend of the distribution of aftershock epicenters with depths ranging 11 to 16 km. According to the on-site survey, the fault-plane, which caused the Gyeongju earthquakes, did not extend to the surface. Finally, seismic site classification B and C, are primarily distributed near damaged buildings, where low-rise structures and non-structural members were damaged due to energy concentration of Gyeongju earthquakes on the high-frequency band.
Seismogenic fault geometry, especially for a blind fault, is usually difficult to derive, based only on the distribution of aftershocks and interference fringes of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR). To better constrain the fault geometry of the 2017 Jiuzhaigou Mw 6.5 earthquake, we first carried out a nonlinear inversion for a single fault source using multi-peak particle swarm optimization (MPSO), Monte Carlo (MC), and Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithms, respectively, with constraints of InSAR data in multiple SAR viewing geometries. The fault geometry models retrieved with different methods were highly consistent and mutually verifiable, showing that a blind faulting with a strike of similar to 154 degrees and a dip angle of similar to 77 degrees was responsible for the Jiuzhaigou earthquake. Based on the optimal fault geometry model, the fault slip distribution jointly inverted from the InSAR and Global Positioning System (GPS) data by the steepest descent method (SDM) and the MC method showed that the slip was mainly concentrated at the depth of 1-15 km, and only one slip center appeared at the depth of 5-9 km with a maximum slip of about 1.06 m, some different from previous studies. Taking the shear modulus of mu = 32 GPa, the seismic moment derived from the distributed slip model was about 7.85 x 10(18) Nm, equivalent to Mw 6.54, which was slightly larger than that from the focal mechanism solutions. The fault spatial geometry and slip distribution could be further validated with the spatial patterns of the immediate aftershocks. Most of the off-fault aftershocks with the magnitude > M2 within one year after the mainshock occurred in the stress positive stress change area, which coincided with the stress triggering theory. The static Coulomb stress, triggered by the mainshock, significantly increased at the Tazang fault (northwest to the epicenter), and at the hidden North Huya fault, and partial segments of the Minjiang fault (west of the epicenter).
The short-term prediction of earthquakes is an essential issue connected with human life protection and related social and economic matters. Recent papers have provided some evidence of the link between the lithosphere, lower atmosphere, and ionosphere, even though with marginal statistical evidence. The basic coupling is hypothesized as being via the atmospheric gravity wave (AGW)/acoustic wave (AW) channel. In this paper we analyze a scenario of the low latitude earthquake (Mw = 6.9) which occurred in Indonesia on 5 August 2018, through a multi-instrumental approach, using ground and satellites high quality data. As a result, we derive a new analytical lithospheric-atmospheric-ionospheric-magnetospheric coupling model with the aim to provide quantitative indicators to interpret the observations around 6 h before and at the moment of the earthquake occurrence.
In this study, multi-polarimetric features extracted from dual-polarimetric (DP) Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data collected by the Sentinel-1 SAR mission are exploited to analyze damages due to earthquakes. First, conventional single-polarization features, based on the coherence between pre-and post-event imagery, are analyzed using both the co-polarized and the cross-polarized channels to point out that the information carried on the two channels is different. Then, a coherent dual-polarimetric feature, based on the inter-channel coherence, is proposed. Results show that the latter feature allows to detect the changes after an earthquake using only two SAR acquisitions, i.e.; before and after the earthquake. Finally, a change detection algorithm based on the eigenvalues of the difference of covariance matrices, is proposed. Experimental results show that the DP information allows to improve the results obtained by conventional single polarization change detection techniques.
Himalayan region is seismically one of the most active continental regions. It experienced at least 4 M similar to 8 earthquakes during an active phase from 1897 to 1952. However, no such earthquake has occurred since 1952. Detailed investigations have revealed that the region is currently in a seismic quiescence phase, and enough strains have been accumulated to source several M similar to 8 earthquakes. However, when and where such an earthquake would occur cannot be forecasted. Even if such an earthquake is forecasted to occur, can everyone leave to a safe place? That is not practical. It is therefore important to learn to live with earthquakes and develop an earthquake resilient society. Recent earthquakes have demonstrated the effectiveness of such an approach. One very effective way to develop earthquake resilient society is to create an earthquake scenario for the repeat of an earlier earthquake, estimate the losses, and then go through an exercise of imparting and sharing with public, state and central governance the ways and means of reducing the anticipated losses. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Government of India, in collaboration with other agencies, built earthquake scenarios for the repeat of the 1905 Kangra earthquake of M similar to 8 and 1897 Shillong earthquake of M 8.7. Appropriate ground motion prediction equation was used to generate earthquake intensities. The intensities of the hypothetical Mw 8 earthquake located at Mandi in Himachal Pradesh (close to the epicenter of 1905 Kangra earthquake) were compared with the 1905 Kangra earthquake's isoseismals and found to be satisfactory. For the 1897 Shillong earthquake, the isoseismals drawn by experts for the 1897 earthquake were used. Using the 2011 Census data for demography and building typology, it was estimated that if the hypothetical Mandi earthquake occurs in the middle of the night, the human lives lost would be similar to 959100 combining the states of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh. It may be noted that the 1905 earthquake had claimed similar to 20,000 human lives. For the repeat of Shillong M 8.7 earthquake in the mid of the night, the number of lives lost estimated would be similar to 423000 in the 8 north-east states (Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura and Mizoram). NDMA took up detailed preparatory exercises involving the center and state bodies for Rapid Visual Screening (RVS) of lifeline buildings; school sensitization events; Incident Response System (IRS); and Awareness Generation programs involving local celebrities and a variety of news media. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force(s) (SDRF) played a crucial role. To test the preparedness, mega-mock drills were held on 13 February 2013 for the 3 north-western states and UT Chandigarh; and on 10 and 13 March 2014 for the 8 north-eastern states. Performances of all the sectors were evaluated by independent observers. There was an excellent media coverage and the very purpose of generating awareness of the losses due to foreseeable earthquakes and how to reduce them was amply demonstrated. It is important to conduct similar exercises in other regions falling under Seismic Zones V and IV of the country. Of utmost importance is educating school students on an yearly basis, ways and means of developing earthquake resilience.
This study tested five methods widely used in estimating the complete magnitudes (M-C) of earthquake catalogs. Using catalogs of observed earthquake properties, we test the performance of these five algorithms under several challenging conditions, such as small volume of events and spatial-temporal heterogeneity, in order to see whether the algorithms are stable and in agreement with known data. We find that the maximum curvature method (MAXC) has perfect stability, but will significantly underestimate M-C unless heterogeneity is absent. M-C estimated by the b-value stability method (MBS) requires many events to reach a stable result. Results from the goodness of fit method (GFT) were unstable when heterogeneity lowered the fitness level. The entire magnitude range method (EMR) is relatively stable in most conditions, and can reflect the change in M-C when heterogeneity exists, but when the incomplete part of the earthquake catalog is dismissed, this method fails. The median-based analysis of the segment slope method (MBASS) can tolerate small sample size, but is incapable of reflecting the missing degree of small events in aftershock sequences. In conditions where M-C changes rapidly, such as in aftershock sequences, observing the time sequence directly can give a precise estimation of the complete sub-catalog, but only when the number of events available for study is large enough can the MAXC, GFT, and MBS methods give a similarly reliable estimation.
The 2021 M(w)7.4 Maduo earthquake occurred on the Jiangcuo fault within the Bayan Har block in eastern Tibet. It is a rather unique event and attests that large earthquakes can occur in the interior of major tectonic blocks within the Tibetan plateau. By processing GPS data observed in the eastern Tibet region, we produce a data set documenting 3-D coseismic displacements of the Maduo earthquake. Using the data set to constrain a coseismic slip model, we find that the earthquake ruptured a nearly vertical fault about 170 km in length, with similar to 90% of the moment released in the shallow layer above 20 km depth. The maximum slip of similar to 3.6 m occurred near the surface around a bend in the east segment of the fault. The overall seismic moment release is 1.82 x 10(20) N m and is equivalent to M(w)7.4. Driven by the eastward extrusion of the Tibetan plateau, the deformation field in eastern Tibet is dominated by left-lateral shear, with the strikes of the tectonic faults rotating clockwise from west to east along with the shear stress orientation. This deformation pattern explains the mechanisms of earthquakes along block boundary faults, as well as the ones on faults within the blocks. The Jiangcuo fault is located similar to 70 km south of the East Kunlun fault and could be connected to the Kunlun Mountain Pass fault to its WNW that ruptured during the 2001 Kokoxili earthquake, and a seismic gap of similar to 240 km long between the two faults is worth special attention for its increased earthquake potential.
In Engquist et al. (2016) [8], the Wasserstein metric was successfully introduced to the full waveform inversion. We apply this method to the earthquake location problem. For this problem, the seismic stations are far from each other. Thus, the trace by trace comparison (Yang et al. [47]) is a natural way to compare the earthquake signals. Under this framework, we have derived a concise analytic expression of the Frechet gradient of the Wasserstein metric, which leads to a simple and efficient implementation of the adjoint method. We square and normalize the earthquake signals for comparison so that the convexity of the misfit function with respect to earthquake hypocenter and origin time can be realized and observed numerically. To reduce the impact of noise, which does not offset each other after the signals are squared, a new control parameter is introduced. Finally, the LMF (Levenberg-Marquardt-Fletcher) method is applied to solve the resulted optimization problem. According to the numerical experiments, only a few iterations are required to converge to the real earthquake hypocenter and origin time. Even for data with noise, we can obtain reasonable and convergent numerical results. (C) 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The main goal of this article is to decluster Iranian plateau seismic catalog by the epidemic-type aftershock sequence (ETAS) model and compare the results with some older methods. For this purpose, Iranian plateau bounded in 24 degrees-42 degrees N and 43 degrees-66 degrees E is subdivided into three major tectonic zones: (1) North of Iran (2) Zagros (3) East of Iran. The extracted earthquake catalog had a total of 6034 earthquakes (Mw>4) in the time span 1983-2017. The ETAS model is an accepted stochastic approach for seismic evaluation and declustering earthquake catalogs. However, this model has not yet been used to decluster the seismic catalog of Iran. Until now, traditional methods like the Gardner and Knopoff space-time window method and the Reasenberg link-based method have been used in most studies for declustering Iran earthquake catalog. Finally, the results of declustering by the ETAS model are compared with result of Gardner and Knopoff (Bull Seismol Soc Am 64(5):1363-1367, 1974), Uhrhammer (Earthq Notes 57(1):21, 1986), Gruenthal (pers. comm.) and Reasenberg (Geophys Res 90:5479-5495, 1985) declustering methods. The overall conclusion is difficult, but the results confirm the high ability of the ETAS model for declustering Iranian earthquake catalog. Use of the ETAS model is still in its early steps in Iranian seismological researches, and more parametric studies are needed.
In the mid-18th century, Great Britain gave birth to the Industrial Revolution. The modern era started in Europe where there were no severe natural disasters caused by earthquakes. By the 19th century, the industrial movement had swept into Asia. In 1868, Japan began importing science and technology from Europe and USA. Subsequently, Japan's civilization, culture, and politics also changed. Over time, cities like Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya became epicenters for modern Japanese life. Although Japan has always been concerned about earthquakes, its people focused more on economic growth during the modernization process than on protecting mega-cities from possible natural disasters. Other Asian countries also have a similar pattern of development. The Science Council of Japan, which was established after World War II, strives to help build safe and secure societies where people can live in peace and contentment. The council has frequently published important proposals on past large-scale domestic earthquake disasters. In this paper, we propose the idea of Moving toward cities where earthquakes will not cause a grievous disaster, which was announced by the Science Council of Japan on August 23, 2017. The proposal focuses on large cities where people, information, wealth, and assets are highly concentrated, and aims to build communities no longer devastated by major earthquakes.
Seismic stress drop is an important parameter to characterize the seismic source, which is usually calculated from the source spectrum. However, it is still challenging to calibrate the path and station effects from the observed spectra of a large number of earthquakes, then accurately separate the source spectrum and calculate the stress drop. In this paper the generalized superposition inversion method is used to iteratively isolate the source term, station term and path term from the observed spectrum by progressive superposition. Then the empirical Green' s function is obtained by fitting the theoretical spectrum to the average source terms. The stress drops of each event are then estimated from individual source spectrum corrected by the empirical Green' s function. This method does not depend on the knowledge of the attenuation coefficients of instrument response, site response, or propagation path, and is not banded to any preferred stress drop model. It has high computational efficiency and is suitable for inversion of source parameters of a large number of earthquakes. We apply the generalized superposition inversion method to the Chang Island swarm and estimate the stress drop of 1431 earthquakes with M-L >= 1. 0. The results show that the source parameters obtained by the generalized superposition inversion method are consistent with those obtained by the traditional method; the stress drop of the Chang Island earthquake swarm is small (the median is 0. 3 MPa), and the variation range is large (between 0.009 and 3. 04 MPa), which belongs to the set of low stress drop events; at the same time, the median stress drop increases with seismic moment and deviates from the self-similarity theory. Spatial variation of stress drop is inhomogeneous. High stress drop events are mainly concentrated at the Northwest of the swarm (NW), and the dependence on the distance from the nearest fault is not clear. The median stress drop at 9 km and 10 km is slightly higher than that at other depths. According to the variation characteristics of stress drop and regional tectonic conditions, we infer that the underground fluid plays a role in the activity of Chang Island earthquake swarm.
Earthquake activity in Indonesia is extremely high in which there are 400 earthquakes every month on average. Most victims are children because they are lack of knowledge about earthquake mitigation. Through the educational game, it was expected that children could optimally absorb the knowledge provided. This game is intended for children with an age range of 6-9 years old because, at that age, children have understood enough to play the game with a narrative so that they can absorb the information delivered through this game. The UI design in this game refers to the four menu displays, namely start, help, setting, and exit. Regarding how to play this game, it is started from the players to enter the same room code and will be directed to the game board, namely red, blue, and green boards. Alternately, the player will roll the dice, if the players are on the red board, then they will get information. If they are on the blue board, they will choose whether the image provided is under the narrative or not, if it is wrong, they will return to the menu start. If they arrive at the green board, they will be asked a question then choose which image matches the narrative given, if it is wrong, the player will return to the start menu. Then the testing of this game is based on UI / UX using the User Experience Questionnaire (UEQ) and respondents' perceptions about the Earthquake Mitigation Educational Game. Earthquake mitigation educational games show positive results where the mean and variance results produce a green up arrow in table format and the box bar graph format are in a positive area. Besides, the UEQ benchmark from the six UEQ scales obtained excellent results. This indicates that users have got their needs both in terms of functionality and ease of use.
We assess the significance of rupture-plane uncertainty in the estimated ground-motion intensity measures (IMs) by using the centroid moment-tensor and fault-plane solutions as well as the ground-motion recordings of the 30 October 2020 Samos Earthquake. We sampled ground-motion fields using stochastically generated rupture planes by considering the uncertainties imposed from alternative fault-plane solutions to reach our objective. Our observations indicate that the compromise between rupture-plane uncertainty and variability in the predicted ground-motion IMs depends on the modeling complexity of the ground-motion predictive model (GMPM). It also depends on the spatial location of the site relative to the ruptured fault. This conclusive remark is important for modelers who perform regional or site-specific seismic hazard and risk analyses. The presented case studies are also useful for GMPM developers because the ground-motion models contain predictor parameters, the most ubiquitous one is source-to-site distance, that are affected from rupture-plane geometry. Depending on the level of model complexity, the number of predictor parameters affected from rupture-plane geometry can increase and therefore the estimated ground-motion IMs can become more prone to rupture-plane uncertainty. Confined to our case-specific observations, we intend to make some suggestions to hazard, risk, and GMPM modelers for the consideration of rupture-plane uncertainty at the end of the paper.
I investigate the hypothesis that earthquake-risk salience increases in a housing market in response to the news of out-of-the-market earthquakes, which subsequently leads to an increase in price differential between low-risk and high-risk areas within the market. Using data on 20 years of worldwide earthquake occurrences and California housing prices, I find that both home value index and median listing price decrease by approximately 6% and 3% respectively in California zip codes with high seismic hazard (relative to those with low seismic hazard) after high-casualty earthquakes occur outside of California. Additionally, I show that (a) the higher an earthquake's death toll, the larger the increase in the price differential; (b) an earthquake in Europe has a significantly larger impact on California's price differential than a similarly deadly earthquake in another region; and (c) the effects are transient and dissipate one month after the earthquake occurs. The results are robust to various specifications and multiple robustness checks.
The July 2019 Ridgecrest, California, earthquake sequence produced cross-fault ruptures from a M(w)6.4 left-lateral foreshock and a M(w)7.1 right-lateral mainshock. We use interferometric synthetic aperture radar and satellite optical imagery to characterize the surface displacements and subsurface fault slip characteristics of the sequence. We document similar to 46 km of surface rupture and peak slip values of similar to 5 m associated with the M(w)7.1 and evidence that the two ruptures crossed each other. We additionally document evidence of triggered creep along 20-25 km of the central Garlock fault. Static stress change analysis shows that the foreshock sequence systematically promoted slip at the M(w)7.1 hypocenter. Moreover, we find static stress changes promoted slip on the Garlock fault only in locations where we document surface creep, strongly indicating that the Garlock fault is sensitive to static stress changes. A potential rupture of the Garlock fault where slip was promoted could produce a M(w)6.7-7.0 earthquake.
During an earthquake, part of the released elastic strain energy is dissipated within the slip zone by frictional and fracturing processes, the rest being radiated away via elastic waves. While frictional heating plays a key role in the energy budget of earthquakes, it could not be resolved by seismological data up to now. Here we investigate the dynamics of laboratory earthquakes by measuring frictional heat dissipated during the propagation of shear instabilities at stress conditions typical of seismogenic depths. We estimate the complete energy budget of earthquake rupture and demonstrate that the radiation efficiency increases with thermal-frictional weakening. Using carbon properties and Raman spectroscopy, we map spatial heat heterogeneities on the fault surface. We show that an increase in fault strength corresponds to a transition from a weak fault with multiple strong asperities and little overall radiation, to a highly radiative fault behaving as a single strong asperity. Plain Language Summary In nature, earthquakes occur when the stress accumulated in a medium is released by frictional sliding on faults. The stress released is dissipated into fracture and heat energy or radiated through seismic waves. The seismic efficiency of an earthquake is a measure of the fraction of the energy that is radiated away into the host medium. Because faults are at inaccessible depths, we reproduce earthquakes in the laboratory under natural in situ conditions to understand the physical processes leading to dynamic rupture. We estimate the first complete energy budget of an earthquake and show that increasing heat dissipation on the fault increases the radiation efficiency. We develop a novel method to illuminate areas of the fault that get excessively heated up. We finally introduce the concept of spontaneously developing heat asperities, playing a major role in the radiation of seismic waves during an earthquake.
Intermediate-depth earthquakes occur at temperatures and pressures thought to prohibit brittle fracture and are deficient in aftershocks compared to shallow earthquakes. We search for aftershock sequences of M > 5.5 intermediate-depth earthquakes in two subducting slabs under Japan, and perform a statistical analysis to see if variations in aftershock productivity can be linked to slab properties. Our study regions are the older, colder and steeper Pacific Plate and the younger, warmer, shallower Philippine Sea Plate. We find that productive aftershock sequences behave similarly to those of crustal earthquakes and tend to appear mainly in the Pacific Plate where they are significantly correlated with along-strike variations in V-P-V-S ratio, suggesting a role for fluids in enabling intermediate-depth aftershock activity.
Natural disasters such as earthquakes have a highly traumatic impact on psychological functioning. Recently, the study of children's earthquake-related emotions and coping strategies has gathered attention. However, little is known on the corresponding adults' representation, adults who in case of disasters are frequently key informants on children's reactions. Examining the influence of earthquake experience, we explored adults' expectations on children's earthquake-related emotions and coping strategies. The participants were 572 Italian university students. Referring to what happens during and after earthquakes, they were asked to list children's (a) expected emotions, and (b) coping strategies for diminishing fear and sadness. We coded (a) number of fear, sadness, and anger terms; (b) presence of 13 coping strategies. We used Generalized Linear Mixed Models. Fear was more frequent than sadness, and more frequent during vs. after earthquakes (and vice versa for sadness). Some coping strategies were reported rarely, while others were more salient (i.e. problem-solving, information-seeking, self-reliance, support-seeking, and accommodation). Earthquake experience had a marginal impact. Our findings enable us to deepen knowledge on the emotional representation of earthquakes. At an applied level, they can help professionals to develop training programs aimed at increasing children's emotional preparedness.
A possibility of applying the density-based clustering algorithm Rough-DESCAN for earthquake zoning is considered in the papet. By using density-based clustering for earthquake zoning it is possible to recognize nonconvex shapes, what gives much more realistic results. Special attention is thereby paid to the problem of determining the corresponding value of the parameter in the algorithm. The size of the parameter e significantly influences the recognizing number and configuration of earthquake zones. A method for selecting the parameter e in the case of big data is also proposed. The method is applied to the problem of earthquake data zoning in a wider area of the Republic of Croatia.
The Weinan-Jingyang fault is one of the southern boundary faults of the Gushi secondary depression of the Weihe Basin, China. Geophysical exploration work and field geological surveys have demonstrated that this fault system has a length of approximately 105 km, and extends at least 5 km into the subsurface, with a northerly dip that shallows with depth. Under the influence of long-term displacement on the fault zone, the strata on the north side of the fault within the fault zone dip to the south, and the subsidence centre of the Gushi depression has migrated continuously southward. The Cenozoic activity of the Weinan-Jingyang fault has resulted in a significant dislocation between Paleozoic and Cenozoic strata on either side of the fault. This fault has been active during the Quaternary, especially the late Quaternary, in some places offsetting strata formed during the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644 CE), suggesting that this fault can reliably be regarded being active during Holocene time. Comprehensive re-examination of historical earthquake records, combined with field studies, confirm that the Weinan-Jingyang fault is likely the fault that slipped during a magnitude similar to 7 earthquake in northeast Xi'an, China in 1568 CE. That earthquake is here re-named the Shaanxi Gaoling Earthquake.
The recent scientific progress in understanding the hierarchical nature of the lithosphere and its dynamics based on systematic earthquake monitoring helps in designing an improved earthquake forecasting strategy. This study presents a detailed multi-precursory analysis of a shallow, moderate Phalla earthquake (July 24, 2015; Mw 5.1; Depth=10km) near Islamabad, Pakistan, 24km away from the monitoring site within the context of earthquake forecasting. The instrumental setup (soil radon monitor and space-ground-based ionosonde) for precursory monitoring of earthquake activity is installed at the foothills of Margalla along the Main Boundary Thrust. For identification of abnormal behavior of ionospheric parameters and soil radon flux, a statistical criterion consistent with other studies is used. Our analyses reveal the effect of pre- and co-seismic changes in the form of anomalous behavior of local ionospheric perturbations (2-15days prior), soil radon flux (3days prior), and seismic quiescence related to Phalla earthquake. The solar/geomagnetic conditions and meteorological parameters remained normal during the anomalous periods. Moreover, multi-precursory approach adopted in this study for earthquake prediction/forecasting can serve as a potential indicator of seismic activity.
This study tackles a set of conclusions and involves an evaluation of presumptive historical earthquakes in the Eastern Mediterranean Region, which hit the region and strongly affected the archeological sites in Jordan. Actually, the core of the study was the ancient cities of Umm Qais (Gadara), Umm Al-Jimal, Deir Al-Kahf, Al-Azraq, and Pella in the North and Dhahil water reservoir and Humaima in the South. The archeological excavations made during the past 20 years helped a lot of the region's seismicity re-evaluation and relocation of historical earthquakes, about which the researchers argued on determining their epicenters and magnitudes. The recent excavations at Umm Qais (Gadara) indicated that earthquake-impacted ruins have been buried under nearly 2 m of dust deposits for centuries. So, such important indicators that can be relied upon to determine the epicenter and magnitude evaluation of these historical earthquakes were unveiled. Based on the recent available excavations, it is obvious that Umm Qais was affected by two seismic events within a time interval of not less than 100 years. In the light of the results found in Umm Qais and the remote archeological sites of Umm Al-Jimal and Deir Al-Kahf, there was no azimuthal projection of neither collapsed nor tilted columns indicating that there was a major earthquake with the epicenter located in the Carmel rupture zone in the North of Palestine, and not in the rift zone as reported earlier. But, the second earthquake was at the northwest of Umm Qais. The earthquake reported here seems to coincide with the reported major earthquake in 748 AD while the second one that occurred earlier corresponds to the 551 AD. The eastward collapsed towers in the South with respect to the southern archeological site of Humaima and a seismic swarm in Sep. 20, 2003, suggested that the Wadi Araba fault may not be continuous but segmented, subject to confirmation by detailed sub-surface structural information.
The viability of earthquake early warning (EEW) in Europe is highly dependent on the magnitude of the ongoing earthquake and the ground-shaking threshold for alert issuance. The potential effectiveness of EEW is highest for Turkey, Italy, and Greece. Here we assess the potential implementation of earthquake early warning (EEW) across Europe, where there is a clear need for measures that mitigate seismic risk. EEW systems consist of seismic networks and mathematical models/algorithms capable of real-time data telemetry that alert stakeholders (e.g., civil-protection authorities, the public) to an earthquake's nucleation seconds before shaking occurs at target sites. During this time, actions can be taken that might decrease detrimental impacts. We investigate distributions of EEW lead times available across various parts of the Euro-Mediterranean region, based on seismicity models and seismic network density. We then determine the potential usefulness of these times for EEW purposes by defining their spatial relationship with population exposure, seismic hazard, and an alert accuracy proxy, using well-established earthquake-engineering tools for measuring the impacts of earthquakes. Our mapped feasibility results show that, under certain conditions, EEW could be effective for some parts of Europe.
In connection with changes in the stress-strain state of the Earth's crust, various physical and mechanical processes, including destruction, take place in the rocks and are accompanied by tectonic earthquakes. Different models have been proposed to describe earthquake preparation and occurrence, depending on the mechanisms and the rates of geodynamic processes. One of the models considers crustal stretching that is characteristic of formation of rift structures. The model uses the data on rock samples that are stretched until destruction in a special laboratory installation. Based on the laboratory modeling, it is established that the samples are destroyed in stages that are interpreted as stages of preparation and occurrence of an earthquake source. The preparation stage of underground tremors is generally manifested by a variety of temporal (long-, medium- and short-term) precursors. The main shortcoming of micro-modeling is that, considering small sizes of the investigated samples, it is impossible to reveal a link between the plastic extension of rocks (taking place in the earthquake hypocenter) and the rock rupture. Plasticity is the ability of certain rocks to change shape and size irreversibly, while the rock continuity is maintained, in response to applied external forces. In order to take into account the effect of plastic deformation of rocks on earthquake preparation and occurrence, we propose not to refer to the diagrams showing stretching of the rock samples, but use a typical diagram of metal stretching, which can be obtained when testing a metal rod for breakage (Fig. 1). The diagram of metal stretching as a function of the relative elongation (to some degree of approximation and taking into account the coefficient of plasticity) can be considered as a model of preparation and occurrence of an earthquake source in case of rifting. The energy released in the period immediately preceding the earthquake contributes to the emergence of its precursors. This article discusses various earthquake precursors with reference to the energy model of tectonic earthquake preparation and occurrence in conditions of crustal stretching.
An active sequence of earthquakes (foreshock, main-shock, and aftershocks) hit the Kumamoto area (Japan) in April 2016, resulting in 69 deaths and considerable economic loss. The earthquakes induced numerous ground failures and cascading geo-hazards, causing major damage to important infrastructures. The main damage patterns include: (a) surface rupture with widespread subsidence of the surface ground, resulting in damage and disruption to transport infrastructure; (b) landslide and slope failure of mountains causing severe damage, collapse and near-collapse of bridges; and (c) liquefaction in some areas of Kumamoto City. Following the earthquakes, field surveys were conducted to study the damages and to understand the main cause of the observed failures. This technical note provides a summary of the geotechnical and infrastructural damage in Kumamoto and the lessons learnt and future research needs are also highlighted.
Total Electron Content (TEC) derived from satellite-based measurements has been widely used for the detection of ionospheric perturbations associated with earthquakes. In this paper, we analyze Pre-Earthquake Ionospheric Anomalies (PEIAs) with TEC data from Global Positioning System (GPS) stations in two Pakistani regions, Islamabad (33.74 degrees N, 73.16 degrees E) and Multan (30.26 degrees N, 71.50 degrees E). These stations operate within seismogenic zones of three earthquakes in Pakistan and Tajikistan. We implement a statistical technique on daily TEC for the detection of PEIA. The results show that PEIAs appear in the form of enhancement during 08:00-12:00 UT (LT = UT+5 h) within 5-10 days before the mainshock. Global Ionospheric Maps (GIMs) over the epicentre are examined on abnormal TEC days. Dense electron enhancements occur during 08:00-12:00 UT, i.e. before three M-w> 5.0 earthquakes. Diurnal mean TEC deviates on the suspected days. It supports the anomalous signatures observed in the temporal and spatial distributions during the particular days. The geomagnetic and solar indices show no activity. These results endorse the existence of Lithosphere Atmosphere Ionospheric Coupling (LAIC) mechanism within the earthquake preparation period associated with the Pakistan and Tajikistan earthquakes.
A 3D viscoelastic finite-element model of the Shanxi seismic zone, including the Taiyuan basin, is described in this article. The differences in regional geological structure, the main active fault zones, the irregular topography, and the layered lithospheric structure, as well as the seismic velocity structure of the crust and mantle, are considered when building the model. Moreover, the present tectonic background stress field in the research area is reconstructed by using the constraints of the observed values for the rate of crustal horizontal movement and the direction of the maximum principal compressive stress. On these bases, the historical strong earthquake sequences with M >= 7 in the Shanxi seismic zone and with M >= 6 in the Taiyuan basin since A. D. 512 are simulated. Based on the equivalent stress and the maximum shear stress, the evolutionary process of the stress field in the Shanxi seismic zone, the interaction between strong earthquakes, and the relationship between the present stress state and seismic activity, as well as the seismic potential of the Shanxi seismic zone, are investigated. The results show that most historical strong earthquakes in the Shanxi seismic zone were advanced by the combined effects of their preceding strong earthquake sequence and long-term tectonic stress loading. The 1989 Yanggao M 6.1 earthquake was affected mainly by the long-term tectonic stress loading, and its preceding earthquake sequence had little influence on it. The long-term tectonic stress loading has an obvious promoting effect on the historical strong earthquakes; thus, its influence cannot be ignored. The results also indicate that the seismic activity in the Shanxi seismic zone is obviously controlled by the regional present stress level. The distribution of the stress field variation on the main active fault zones in the Taiyuan basin may be related to the seismic potential of this region.
The fragility of concrete-filled steel tubular (CFST) frame structures with buckling-restrained braces (BRBs) subjected to multiple earthquakes is studied in this paper. First, a fiber beam element model with rate-dependent concrete and steel material properties is developed for CFST members and, then, the effect of the strain rate on the seismic response of the CFST frame structure is investigated numerically. The influence of BRBs on the seismic response of the CFST frame structure is then comparatively analyzed. The seismic responses of the CFST frame structure with BRBs under single mainshocks and earthquake sequences are investigated, and the fragility curves are generated using probabilistic seismic demand analysis. The obtained roof displacement and inter-story drift ratio (ISDR) of the structure decreased by 10.2% and 6.9%, respectively, when obtained while considering the strain rate effect, compared with those obtained without consideration of the strain rate effect. BRBs can effectively improve the seismic performance of the CFST frame structure in that the maximum roof displacement and ISDR can be reduced by 45.1% and 43.9%, respectively. Compared with those under single mainshocks, the maximum roof displacement and ISDR of the structure with BRBs under earthquake sequences significantly increase. The fragility of the BRB structure under earthquake sequences is more severe than that under single mainshocks. Therefore, the influences of the strain rate effect and earthquake sequence should be considered to realistically evaluate the seismic fragility of CFST structures.
Earthquakes are one of the most overwhelming types of natural hazards. As a result, successfully handling the situation they create is crucial. Due to earthquakes, many lives can be lost, alongside devastating impacts to the economy. The ability to forecast earthquakes is one of the biggest issues in geoscience. Machine learning technology can play a vital role in the field of geoscience for forecasting earthquakes. We aim to develop a method for forecasting the magnitude range of earthquakes using machine learning classifier algorithms. Three different ranges have been categorized: fatal earthquake; moderate earthquake; and mild earthquake. In order to distinguish between these classifications, seven different machine learning classifier algorithms have been used for building the model. To train the model, six different datasets of India and regions nearby to India have been used. The Bayes Net, Random Tree, Simple Logistic, Random Forest, Logistic Model Tree (LMT), ZeroR and Logistic Regression algorithms have been applied to each dataset. All of the models have been developed using the Weka tool and the results have been noted. It was observed that Simple Logistic and LMT classifiers performed well in each case.
Several large (M >= 6) earthquakes have occurred in the vicinity of Anchorage, Alaska, within the past century. The presence of the underlying subducting Pacific plate makes it difficult to determine the origin of these older earthquakes as either crustal, slab, or the subduction plate interface. We perform a seismological study of historical and modem earthquakes within the Cook Inlet and Susitna region, west of Anchorage. We first estimate hypocenters for historical large earthquakes in order to assess their likelihood of origin as crustal, slab, or plate interface. We then examine modem crustal seismicity to better understand the style of faulting and the location of active structures, including within (and beneath) the Cook Inlet and Susitna basins. We perform double-couple moment tensor inversions using high frequency body waves (1-10 Hz) for small to moderate (M >= 2.5) crustal earthquakes (depth <= 30 km) occurring from 2007 to 2017. Our misfit function combines both waveforms differences as well as first-motion polarities in order to obtain reliable moment tensor solutions. The three focus regions Beluga, upper Cook Inlet, and Susitna exhibit predominantly thrust mechanisms for crustal earthquakes, indicating an overall compressive regime within the crust that is approximately consistent with the direction of plate convergence. Mechanisms within upper Cook Inlet have strike directions aligned with active anticlines previously identified in Cook Inlet from active-source seismic data. Our catalog of moment tensors is helpful for identifying and characterizing subsurface faults from seismic lineaments and from faults inferred from subsurface images from active-source seismic data.
In this paper, we put forward a procedure that aims to forecast focal mechanism of future earthquakes. One of the primary uses of such forecasts is in probabilistic seismic hazard analysis (PSHA); in fact, aiming at reducing the epistemic uncertainty, most of the newer ground motion prediction equations consider, besides the seismicity rates, the forecast of the focal mechanism of the next large earthquakes as input data. The data set used to this purpose is relative to focal mechanisms taken from the latest stress map release for Italy containing 392 well-constrained solutions of events, from 1908 to 2015, with M-w >= 4 and depths from 0 down to 40 km. The data set considers polarity focal mechanism solutions until to 1975 (23 events), whereas for 1976-2015, it takes into account only the Centroid Moment Tensor (CMT)-like earthquake focal solutions for data homogeneity. The forecasting model is rooted in the Total Weighted Moment Tensor concept that weighs information of past focal mechanisms evenly distributed in space, according to their distance from the spatial cells and magnitude. Specifically, for each cell of a regular 0.1 degrees x 0.1 degrees spatial grid, the model estimates the probability to observe a normal, reverse, or strike-slip fault plane solution for the next large earthquakes, the expected moment tensor and the related maximum horizontal stress orientation. These results will be available for the new PSHA model for Italy under development. Finally, to evaluate the reliability of the forecasts, we test them with an independent data set that consists of some of the strongest earthquakes with M-w >= 3.9 occurred during 2016 in different Italian tectonic provinces.
The Caucasus is a part of ongoing collision of the Arabian and Eurasian plates, where moderate to strong earthquakes caused significant losses of lives and livelihood in the past. To better understand seismic hazard in the region, we develop a model of block-and-fault dynamics for Transcaucasia, the largest part of the Caucasus to the south of the Greater Caucasus Mountains, to simulate regional earthquakes. The model structure is developed by employing the results of the morphostructural analysis to delineate crustal blocks and the geodetic observations on crustal movements in the region. The model incorporates a nonlinear rate-dependent slip of the faults separating the blocks. A set of numerical experiments has been performed to address the following questions: (i) where strong earthquakes occur and what their reoccurrence time is; (ii) how rigid crustal blocks react to the Arabian plate push and to movements of the ductile part of the crust in Transcaucasia; and (iii) whether the fault slip rates and the block displacements in the model correlate with observed GPS-velocities. The model results confirm that the contemporary crustal dynamics and seismicity pattern in Transcaucasia are determined by the north-northeastern motion of the Arabian plate relative to Eurasia and by the movement of the ductile crust underlying the rigid crustal blocks. Variations in the rheological properties of the fault zones and/or of the ductile crust influence the pattern of seismicity. The number and maximum magnitude of synthetic earthquakes change with the variations in the movements of the crustal blocks and in the rheological properties of the lower crust and the fault zones. The model results can be used in comprehensive seismic hazard assessment of the Caucasus region based on instrumentally observed, historical and synthetic seismicity.
Destructive megathrust earthquakes, such as the 2015 Mw 8.3 Illapel event, frequently affect Chile. In this study, we assess the damage of the 2015 Illapel Earthquake in the Coquimbo Region (North-Central Chile) using the MSK-64 macroseismic intensity scale, adapted to Chilean civil structures. We complement these observations with the analysis of strong motion records and geophysical data of 29 seismic stations, including average shear wave velocities in the upper 30m, Vs(30), and horizontal-to-vertical spectral ratios. The calculated MSK intensities indicate that the damage was lower than expected for such megathrust earthquake, which can be attributable to the high Vs(30) and the low predominant vibration periods of the sites. Nevertheless, few sites have shown systematic high intensities during comparable earthquakes most likely due to local site effects. The intensities of the 2015 Illapel earthquake are lower than the reported for the 1997 Mw 7.1 Punitaqui intraplate intermediate-depth earthquake, despite the larger magnitude of the recent event.
Rapid seismic deployments after major earthquakes often produce critical data for characterizing postseismic processes. Taking advantage of pre-existing optical fibers, the recently emerging distributed acoustic sensing (DAS) technology can quickly establish ultra-dense seismic arrays after the mainshocks. Here we present the first example of such a rapid-response experiment using four telecommunication fiber optic cables near the 2019 M 7.1 Ridgecrest earthquake in California. By applying template matching to the Ridgecrest DAS array, we detected 6 times more aftershocks than the standard catalog within the three-month period. The enhanced catalog reveals abundant aftershocks on multiple crosscutting faults near the epicenters of the mainshock and the M 6.4 foreshock. Given the widespread fiber optic networks around the world, DAS has the potential to deliver fast and high-resolution aftershock monitoring and promote better understanding of earthquake physics.
In this study, the strong ground motion of the Jiuzhaigou Ms7.0 earthquake, which occurred in northern Sichuan, China, was simulated based on the stochastic finite-fault method. The earthquake event was recorded by 66 strong ground-motion stations operated by the China Strong Motion Networks Center. We simulated 11 records selected within 200 km source-to-site distance. According to previous studies and empirical relationships, we estimated the region-specific input parameters. The zero-distance kappa filter obtained had a value of 0.0206 s. Two different source models were applied in this study: the random slip model and specified slip model. Using the stochastic finite-fault method, we simulated the PGA, Fourier spectrum and response spectrum at all stations. The stochastic simulated result based on the specified slip distribution models had no significant bias at most stations. Using a model with a random slip distribution, the simulated response spectra also matched the observed result, which indicated that the stochastic finite-fault method is not very sensitive to the input slip distributions and fault dimensions. We divided the study area into 1116 sites to simulate the spatial distribution of PGA based on the two models. The simulated maximum intensity of the epicentral area reached level IX, which was similar to the observed maximum intensity and indicated that the simulated result could be used in prediction of an imminent earthquake disaster. For future earthquake prediction, seismic hazards could even be estimated quickly without obtaining detailed information about the fault plane.
Natural disasters, such as earthquakes, can cause significant disruptions in power systems, such as loss of generations and loads. To evaluate the behavior of a generator to remain in synchronism, subjected to the large disturbance of an earthquake, we propose a dynamic generator resiliency model. The proposed approach models the effects of earthquake energy transfer to a generator considering the time-variant behavior of earthquake disturbance. In addition, the proposed model analyzes the transient behavior of generators impacted by an earthquake considering earthquake ground acceleration and generators' dynamic characteristics. Using this model, we can determine synchronism status of impacted generators and transient stability status of a power system in response to an earthquake. The proposed approach is tested using real-world data including the data of a real earthquake occurred on a real power plant. The obtained results illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed model to correctly predict the impact of an earthquake on a power plant, and to determine the effects of earthquake magnitude and generator robustness (in terms of generator inertia and damping torque) on the response of a generator to an earthquake.
Although the knowledge of current seismicity is a critical information for making and implementing effective earthquake-related policy, the detailed seismicity information of the metropolitan areas with high-population density has been largely underestimated due to the high-level of cultural noise and small earthquake magnitude. This study presents 12 earthquakes including 2 earthquakes previously known and 10 additional earthquakes occurred from 2010 to 2017 in Busan, but they were unreported by the Korea Meteorological Administration. Matched filter technique is used to detect micro-earthquakes. Although the epicenters of micro-earthquakes though present a distinguished linearity, a correlation with faults in the area is unknown. A repeated micro-seismicity suggests that there are subsurface structures responsible for observed events. If large earthquakes occur along the fault in Busan, they may cause catastrophic natural disasters. Given the fact that the recent earthquakes did not accompany any surface signatures, it is highly recommended that the current micro-seismicity be investigated, and updated seismicity information be incorporated into establishing active fault maps in Korea.
Twelve Sentinel-1 images are used to measure the surface displacements caused by the Zaduo earthquake on 17 October 2016 in Qinghai, China. Comprehensive analysis of the local geologic structure, focal mechanisms, relocated aftershocks, and fault geometrical parameters from nonlinear inversions of the InSAR data indicates that a NE-trending fault with a strike of61 degrees, namely the Aduo fault, was responsible for this event. Further geodetic inversions for finite fault models show that the dip angle of this fault is 75 degrees to the SE. The majority of the slip occurred at the depth from 5km to 17km, and the normal-slip component was comparable to the strike-slip component. The peak slip of31cm occurred at a depth of10km. The InSAR determined moment is 9.61x10(17) Nm with a rigidity of 30 GPa, equivalent to Mw 5.9. The geological map reveals that the Aduo fault was characterized by a left-lateral strike-slip component in the past, as evidenced by the offset of Paleogene sedimentary rocks. Our results for the Zaduo earthquake suggest that the Qiangtang block probably consists of two or more sub-blocks with different eastward extrusion velocities and that the deformation of the Qiangtang block is occurring not only along its boundaries but also in its interior.
Fast acquisition of the seismic information and accurate assessment of the earthquake disaster is the key problem for emergency rescue after a destructive earthquake. In order to satisfy the requirements of the earthquake emergency response and rescue for the cities and counties, a quasi real-time comprehensive evaluation system for earthquake disaster is developed. This software system has the functions of gathering disaster information, analyzing seismic damage and estimating disaster extent. To prop up such a powerful software platform, data and algorithms are prerequisites. As a result, Micro-Electro-Mechanical System (MEMS) is developed to monitor strong motion underground, application programs for data collection by the mobile terminal are also developed to acquire the basic structural data and disaster information. Besides, based on short-distance emergency communication technology, a set of short-distance multi-modes are designed to transmit those critical data to the evaluation system. After a certain earthquake, using fragility analysis method and dynamic correction algorithm, together with the basic data, seismic disaster evaluation in the county region is finally realized in real-time to provide a scientific basis for seismic emergency command, rescue and assistant decision.
The research was carried out at the University of Camerino in the Surveying of Architecture and Cities course of School of Architecture. The research focused on small old villages of the Middle Ages, with castles, fortresses, towers and town walls, which define urban hierarchies and territorial boundaries. The location is the province of Macerata. For each tower or castle we carried out a direct surveys and a photogrammetry one. To better understand the context, a special focus was dedicated to the medieval center of Visso. The results showed the typically medieval morphological aspects of the village, also thanks to the axonometric representation. After the campaign of survey there was a terrible earthquake just in the same area of our research. Visso was very damaged and we worked with the Municipality to use in the better way our survey and to make a new one to show the earthquake results.
This study selects six consecutive 18.6 years of global M >= 7.0 earthquakes, calculates the lunar declination angle based on the time of the earthquakes, and divides the global earthquakes into 13 research regions according to the global plate distribution facts to explore the lunar influence of earthquakes. The relationship between the lunar declination angle and these earthquakes is analyzed. The analysis results show that when the moon advances to a certain interval of its declination angle, the earthquakes are concentrated in a certain research region, whereas other research regions are relatively calm, providing a scientific basis for medium and long-term earthquake predictions in each research region. The 18.6-year cycle is the lunar declination angle change cycle, and it is also the major nutation cycle of the earth's motion and lunar node movement cycle. This is, in reality, the effect of the lunar node tide, which is worthy of further study.
Earthquakes can destroy rural households' assets and livelihood in seconds and increase their vulnerability to poverty. Investigating rural residents' intentions to cope with disaster impacts is important for disaster managers and policy-makers in designing more relevant prevention and mitigation strategies. This study analyzes primary data collected in three rural villages with different landforms in Weinan city of Shaanxi province in China. The main objective is to understand the household adaptation intentions to potential earthquake risks in rural areas of China. Results revealed that household risk perception, perceived efficacy, education level and occupation played significant roles in adaptation intention to earthquake risk. However, income level and income diversity did not affect respondents' adaptation intention significantly. This study suggests that earthquake risk reduction initiatives by the government could facilitate villagers' adaptations to disaster impacts in rural China. In addition to providing disaster relief, the Chinese government could make more concerted effort to increase more financial support channels and encourage rural Chinese households, particularly villagers who live in poorer rural areas, to pro-actively invest in long-term disaster risk reduction.
This research hypothesizes that tidal and earthquakes are induced by solar system planet positions, as the planetary attraction act as a trigger force change the speed of the Earth rotation. The occurrence of a sea tide is only a consequence of a relative slowdown of the rotational/revolving speed of the Earth which urges the Earth's plates to move. The research included analyzing earthquake data for the whole Earth over July, 2019 with a case study of the Arabian Plate (AP) seismicity included the Zagros Folded Belt (ZFB) and Zagros Thrust Zone (ZTZ) as a seismic active belt in the northern hemisphere. The rotational velocity of the Earth has been calculated for eight seismic events, and it turns out that the velocity was different for each case. A negative proportional was found between earthquake and the Earth rotational speed. During the configuration of the Jupiter and Saturn in a straight line with the Earth over July 2019, one thousand and thirty-seven of earthquakes occurred around the world were statistically analyzed having 2-6 magnitudes. Rotational/ revolving speed, angular momentum and rotational inertia kinetic energy; gravitational potential energy of the Earth at equator and at 45 degrees were computed to show how rotational speed triggering plates. Planets interact with each other influencing earthquakes via the gravitational stresses arising from the configuration of the solar system planets that cause a slowdown of the rotational/revolving speed of the Earth. This stimulates the Earth's plate to move generating earthquake due to the activation of faults.
To determine the spatial distribution of earthquake potential along the active Himalayan arc, we utilize GPS measurements and earthquake data. We derive horizontal velocity field and 2-D strain rates from a new set of 41 regional GPS stations along with 446 published velocities. We convert these strain rate tensors to geodetic moment rate build-up within 24 contiguous segments and compare to the seismic moment rate release derived from a reassessed earthquake catalog of 900 years. The geodetic to seismic moment rate ratio, an indicator of stored strain energy, varies from below unity to more than 50 in different segments. The estimated geodetic moment rate ranges from 1.7 x 10(18) Nm/yr to 10.2 x 10(18) Nm/yr, whereas the seismic moment rate ranges from 3.7 x 10(16) Nm/yr to 5.1 x 10(19) Nm/yr. This variation between the geodetic and seismic moment rate corresponds to a moment deficit rate of similar to 1.15 x 10(17) Nm/yr to 7.97 x 10(18) Nm/yr along various segments of the study region. The above moment deficit rate provides an equivalent earthquake potential of magnitude 5.7 - 8.2 in different segments. Specifically, the higher earthquake potential (M-w >= 8.0) corresponds to the segments in the central seismic gap and the northeast part of Himalaya, whereas the lower earthquake potential (M-w < 7.0) corresponds to the segments encompassing the rupture areas of recent large events. The present findings not only provide input constraints on the contemporary crustal deformation but also contributes to the time-dependent seismic hazard analysis along the Himalaya.
After the natural earthquakes, the permeability of underground rock in the affected area often changes remarkably. The time evolution curve of permeability shows unique characteristics. The mechanism of this anomaly is so complicated that the traditional percolation theory cannot give a reasonable explanation. In response to this problem, starting with the law of permeability change after earthquakes, we analyze the influence of rock fracture system on permeability and acquire the quantitative relation between the fracture parameters and permeability. Because of the fact that the fractal dimension is proportional to the external stress, by combining the underground rock viscoelastic characteristics and the body strain generated by earthquake, the time-dependent generalization has been done to the fractal crack permeability model. We introduce the stress relaxation mechanism into the rock system to establish the time evolution model of permeability after the earthquake, and the theoretical result agrees well with the experimental data. On this basis, a new concept of relaxation effect of fractal permeability is proposed. This model provides a new way for the research on earthquake fluid migration. It has both theoretical value and practical significance for revealing the mechanism of fault recovery after the earthquake and the earthquake preparation.
Existing research is inconclusive regarding the longer-term economic effects of earthquakes. We examine the medium-run impacts of the 2010 earthquake in Chile, the sixth-largest ever recorded, using value-added tax collection as a proxy for economic activity at the municipal level and a measure of local ground-shaking intensity. We find that the affected municipalities suffered a relevant and persistent drop in their economic activity of about 10%, 8-9 years after the event. We discuss the plausibility of the assumption of conditional parallel trends and show that the overall results are robust to using alternative estimation methods.
The Kunlun Fault System (KFS), situated on the northern border of the Bayan Har block, central-eastern Tibetan Plateau, is among the most important active regional transform fault systems. The Maqu seismic gap (MSG), mainly located in the eastern KFS, is similar to 200-km long. It is composed of the Maqu section, Luocha section, and Hua Lake pull-apart basin. A strong paleoearthquake was identified on the Luocha section, named the Zoige earthquake. It is inferred that the earthquake occurred in 1488 AD. Ruptures caused by this earthquake are distributed intermittently along the Luocha section and form an similar to 50-km-long inverse L-shaped deformation zone. The coseismic left-lateral horizontal displacement is 3 similar to 6 m. The macro-epicenter is located west of Benduo village. The estimated magnitude is Mw 7.2 +/- 0.2, based on empirical magnitude fault rupture relations. These results indicate that the Luocha section was the causative fault of this earthquake and is dominated by compression-shear stress. The latest earthquakes along the Maqu and Luocha sections occurred 1000 similar to 1500 and similar to 530 years ago, respectively. The next earthquake is more likely to induce segmented ruptures than cascade ruptures. The elapsed time along the Maqu section is close to the earthquake recurrence interval. Therefore, the Maqu section has the risk of seismic activity.
Purpose. It is well-known that strong earthquakes are typically accompanied by some phenomena which relate to variations of natural electromagnetic fields. Based on the idea about the mechanism of lithosphere-atmosphere-ionosphere coupling we expect to detect some precursors of strong natural earthquakes in electromagnetic data sets recorded by magnetotelluric instruments far enough from epicenters. Methodology. The temporal changes of power spectral density in the natural electromagnetic field components were analyzed with respect to the earthquakes with a magnitude greater than 5 (M5+) occuring in Europe as well as worldwide. Results. Electrical and magnetic field variations were recorded at three sites located at two lines. The first line was placed along the Tesseyre-Tornquist Zone in Poland and the second one was perpendicular to the first. The observations have been carried out from September 2015 to April 2018. The data were recorded by standard five channels magnetotelluric instruments. The magnetic field components were measured in three orthogonal directions and electrical ones in two horizontal orthogonal directions. The spectra of the electromagnetic field components have been analyzed with respect to earthquakes with M5+ in Europe as well as around the globe. The changes in the intensity of the spectra which can be treated as earthquake precursors have been detected from 24 to 32 hours before the seismic events. The reasons for such effects are also discussed. Originality. The electromagnetic monitoring is typically carried out next to seismically active regions but according to theoretical explanations some of the phenomena are of global origin. We used ordinary magnetotelluric data recorded at mid latitude sites placed far enough from the seismically active regions and we show that a global relationship exists between seismic and electromagnetic events with high probability. Practical significance. Such results can accomplish the information about earthquake precursors.
The earthquake-induced seabed instability is one of critical issues that need to be considered in the offshore structure design procedure. However, the investigations of the earthquake-induced seabed behaviour are limited. Most previous studies regard to the seabed response are adopting the traditional mesh-based method (such as finite element method). In this study, to overcome the drawbacks existing in mesh-based methods (for example, time-consuming and mathematical sophistication), a meshfree method is adopted to predict the soil response under the Japan 311 earthquake, based on the u - p approximation. The numerical results conclude that the earthquake-induced transient response, including the acceleration and the pore pressure were amplified from the top to the bottom of the seabed. The high values of the degree of saturation lead to a large magnitude of the pore pressures, while the amplification for the seismic wave become slightly extensive as the soil permeability increases.
Earthquake gates are fault geometric complexities, common in natural fault systems, that conditionally impede earthquake ruptures. This study centers on modeling of multicycle dynamics of the Pingding Shan earthquake gate along the central Altyn Tagh Fault in northwest China. The earthquake gate includes three geometric complexities: a prominent restraining bend, a 4-km wide stepover to the east, and a releasing bend to the west. We use a 2D finite element method to simulate coseismic spontaneous ruptures with interseismic fault stress evolutions computed by an analytic viscoelastic solution. Paleoseismic records and long-term slip-rates are used to constrain the models. We find that fault-geometry-related heterogenous stresses accumulated over earthquake cycles yield complex rupture patterns and help explain earthquake recurrence intervals revealed by paleoseismic records. The three most important contributions to the heterogeneous stresses come from dynamic ruptures passing fault geometric complexities, fault-strike-dependent tectonic loading and relaxation, and stress history from past earthquakes. In the Pingding Shan earthquake gate, the releasing stepover appears to impede ruptures more effectively than the restraining bend. The combined impact of the restraining bend and the releasing stepover makes the Pingding Shan earthquake gate a very effective barrier to 350-km model-spanning ruptures. The best-fit model yields a low recurrence interval of 4.6 kyrs for 350-km-long ruptures, interspersed with more frequent ruptures limited to individual fault segments. A lower static friction tends to reduce the effectiveness of the earthquake gate to impede ruptures. Local fault geometric complexities together with rapid energy release and restrengthening of friction during dynamic ruptures help explain the 0.66 recurrence interval coefficient of variation (COV) recorded at the Copper Mine paleoseismic trench site on the Xorxoli segment. This study provides a method for applying heterogenous initial stresses for single-event dynamic rupture simulations that consider the effect of past earthquakes and fault geometry.
Changes in groundwater level during earthquakes have been reported worldwide. In this study, field observations of co-seismic groundwater-level changes in wells under different aquifer conditions and sampling intervals due to near-field earthquake events in Taiwan are presented. Sustained changes, usually observed immediately after earthquakes, are found in the confined aquifer. Oscillatory changes due to the dynamic strain triggered by passing earthquake waves can only be recorded by a high-frequency data logger. While co-seismic changes recover rapidly in an unconfined aquifer, they can sustain for months or longer in a confined aquifer. Three monitoring wells with long-term groundwater-level data were examined to understand the association of co-seismic changes with local hydrogeological conditions. The finite element software ABAQUS is used to simulate the pore-pressure changes induced by the displacements due to fault rupture. The calculated co-seismic change in pore pressure is related to the compressibility of the formation. The recovery rate of the change is rapid in the unconfined aquifer due to the hydrostatic condition at the water table, but slow in the confined aquifer due to the less permeable confining layer. Fracturing of the confining layer during earthquakes may enhance the dissipation of pore pressure and induce the discharge of the confined aquifer. The study results indicated that aquifer characteristics play an important role in determining groundwater-level changes during and after earthquakes.
We present the first instrumental earthquake catalogue for Malta using 20 years of broadband seismic data recording. For about two decades Malta had only one station (WDD) which formed part of regional networks. Its location in the eastern part of the Sicily Channel puts the station at the periphery of these networks with the result that weak, off-shore earthquakes that occur between Malta and Libya, are in many cases recorded on WDD only and are undetected or unlisted by the regional networks. We adopt the single-station earthquake location method to process the continuously recorded seismic data of station WDD from 1995 to 2014. We combine our earthquake list with the bulletins of INGV and IRIS to catalogue 550 earthquakes. We statistically quantify the uncertainties of the earthquake epicentres and establish that many earthquake locations differ from INGV/IRIS locations by < 20 km at local epicentral distances from WDD and that earthquake magnitudes determined from single station are overestimated by 0.2. We find that the Malta and Linosa grabens are seismically active, and a high concentration of seismic activity is located 80-120 km SSE of Malta at around 35 degrees N latitude. Closer to land, clusters of epicentres are also located, within 40 km to the east and south of Malta. This new earthquake catalogue shows that the regional seismicity is higher than previously observed and that a number of submarine structures in the area are active as part of the ongoing extension in the Sicily Channel.
We compute high-resolution space-time variations of subsurface seismic properties from autocorrelation functions (ACF's) of noise and local earthquakes, recorded by the Sage Brush Flat dense array deployed around the Clark branch of the San Jacinto fault. The resolved temporal changes arc referred to as apparent velocity changes because they reflect both nonlinear response and variations of material properties such as cracking and damage. Apparent velocity changes are estimated at four frequency bands (10-15, 10-20, 15-30 and 20-40 Hz) for two local earthquake data sets. In one analysis, ACF's from P - and S-wave windows of 31 small events with magnitudes below 3.1 are used to compute the apparent velocity variations with respect to the mean ACF of each phase, and we also use the mean ACF of noise data as reference to estimate the changes. In a further analysis, the temporal evolution of properties is computed using moving time windows in continuous waveform over one-hour long data with noise and earthquake signals. The apparent velocity changes and recovery times are frequency dependent and present a strong spatial variability across the array. The resolved changes arc larger and recovery time shorter with data associated with higher frequencies. At frequencies larger than 15 Hz, and using the mean ACF of noise data as a reference, the apparent average velocity changes across the array during the passage of the P and S waves from the small local events are 2.5 per cent and 6 per cent, respectively. The apparent velocity changes decrease by one order of magnitude when the earthquake data are used as a reference. The relatively large changes in response to very low ground motion have important implications on nonlinear processes involving degradation and healing of the subsurface material during common earthquake shaking.
In this paper, we predict the earthquake magnitudes which were recently occurred in Gyeongju and Pohang, using statistical methods based on historical data. For this purpose, we use the five-year block maximum data of 1392 similar to 1771 period, which has a relatively high annual density, among the historical earthquake magnitude data of the Chosun Dynasty. Then, we present the prediction and analysis of earthquake magnitudes for the return level over return period in the Chosun Dynasty using the extreme value theory based on the distribution of generalized extreme values (GEV). We use maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) and L-moments estimation for parameters of GEV distribution. In particular, this study also demonstrates via the goodness-of-fit tests that the GEV distribution can be an appropriate analytical model for these historical earthquake magnitude data.
The 2019 M-w 7.1 Ridgecrest earthquake opens an opportunity to investigate how soon we can produce a reliable fault geometry and subsequently a robust source model based on high-rate Global Positioning System (GPS) data. In this study, we conduct peak ground displacement (PGD) magnitude scaling, real-time centroid moment tensor (CMT) calculation and rapid kinematic slip inversion. We conclude that a four-station PGD warning with a magnitude of M-w 7.03 can be issued at 24 s after initiation of the rupture. Fast CMT inversion can initially recover the correct nodal planes at 30 s. The kinematic slip model reveals that the M-w 7.1 earthquake is a predominant dextral strike-slip event with both normal and thrust components resolved. The earthquake shows a bilateral rupture with a low propagation speed of similar to 2.1 km s(-1) and a slip maxima of similar to 4 m. The total moment is 5.18 x 10(19) N m (M-w 7.11). We further suggest that a reasonable source model will be available in a simulated real-time mode within 30 s after the earthquake occurring, without using full high-rate GPS waveforms. This research highlights the significance of high-rate GPS for rapid earthquake response and modelling of kinematic rupture, which is also generalized by the hypothetical real-time GPS analysis for the 2016 M-w 7.8 Kaikoura earthquake and the 2010 M-w 7.2 El Mayor-Cucapah earthquake.
Terrestrial laser scanners (TLSs) can acquire high-precision three-dimensional point cloud data for earthquake-damaged buildings. In this study, we collected TLS data in the Wenchuan earthquake zone and developed the TLS-BSAM (terrestrial laser scanning-based building shape analysis model) to carry out a building earthquake damage analysis. This model involves equidistance polygon array extraction, shape dispersion parameter calculations, irregular building clustering segmentation, and damage analysis. We chose 21 buildings as samples for the experiments. The results show that when using an equidistance polygon array to depict a three-dimensional building, 0.5m is a reasonable sampling interval for building earthquake damage analysis. Using certain characteristic parameters to carry out K-means clustering, one can efficiently divide irregular buildings into regular blocks. Then, by weighted averages, the shape dispersion parameters can be calculated to express the damage extent to buildings. Among the shape dispersion parameters, at least the weighted average standard deviations of the tilt direction, rectangularity, compactness, and center point are suitable to reflect the damage extent. Higher values reflect more serious damage. On the basis of existing data, the weighted average standard deviations of the tilt direction and center point can be used to establish discriminant functions that can effectively distinguish the damage extent.
Statistics about the occurrence frequency of earthquakes (1973-2015) at shallow, intermediate and great depths along the Izu-Bonin-Mariana (IBM) Arc is presented and a percent perturbation relative to P-wave mean value (LLNL-G3Dv3) is adopted to show the deep structure. The correlation coefficient between the subduction rate and the frequency of shallow seismic events along the IBM is 0.605, proving that the subduction rate is an important factor for shallow seismic events. The relationship between relief amplitudes of the seafloor and earthquake occurrences implies that some seamount chains riding on the Pacific seafloor may have an effect on intermediate-depth seismic events along the IBM. A probable hypothesis is proposed that the seamounts or surrounding seafloor with high degree of fracture may bring numerous hydrous minerals into the deep and may result in a different thermal structure compared to the seafloor where no seamounts are subducted. Fluids from the seamounts or surrounding seafloor are released to trigger earthquakes at intermediate-depth. Deep events in the northern and southern Mariana arc are likely affected by a horizontal propagating tear parallel to the trench.
The apparent resistivity imaging at multiparametric geophysical observatory (MPGO), Ouguri Hills, Tezpur was carried out since 31st August, 2016 for fixed interval time of 3 days to investigate precursory signature prior to earthquake events. Anomalies in apparent resistivity prior to earthquake events are observed. The anomalies are not influenced by the rainfall activity in the region during the investigation period. We adopt Weibull distribution technique with observed apparent resistivity data to look for and revalidate the observations. The Weibull parameters, i.e.Kandmare estimated to be 0.26 and 1.04, respectively. No precise relation between magnitude and earthquake precursory time is found. Simultaneously, an attempt has been made to establish a relation between the earthquake magnitude (M) and precursory time (T) and a relation between the earthquake precursory time (T) and distance of the earthquake (Delta) from the observation point. Weibull probability distribution indicate the probability of an earthquake occurrence exceeds the measure up to 80% (9 days) after the precursory signal is observed. A comparison of probability analysis ascertains a mean precursory time and its standard deviation.
Earthquake depth distribution provides key information on rheological behavior of the crust, which usually shows a brittle-ductile transition at a depth of about 10 km. In this study, we use the generalized cut-and-paste method to obtain source parameters of 571 earthquakes in the Sichuan-Yunnan region of China between 2009 and 2017. We were able to successfully determine focal mechanisms, moment magnitudes, and centroid depths of 536 earthquakes with a minimum moment magnitude of 3.2. Our moment magnitudes and centroid depths are systematically smaller than the magnitudes (M-s and m(b)) and hypocenter depths from the China Earthquake Network Center and International Seismological Centre catalogs for M >= 4.0 earthquakes. The earthquake depths in the Sichuan-Yunnan region are mostly in a 5-9 km range, with an average at 7.6 km. About 23% earthquakes have centroid depths <5 km and are concentrated in the southern Sichuan basin. Only very few earthquakes are deeper than 19 km. Compared with the earthquake depth distribution in southern California, the SichuanYunnan region has many shallower earthquakes. The depth distribution suggests that the brittle-ductile transition in the Sichuan-Yunnan region is shallower than the transition beneath southern California, which is probably due to the existence of newborn faults in the Sichuan-Yunnan region.
On 2016 September 12, a moderate earthquake (M-L 5.8) occurred in Gyeongju, South Korea, located hundreds of kilometres away from the nearest plate boundaries. The earthquake, the largest instrumentally recorded event in South Korea, occurred in a sequence of thousands of earthquakes, including a M-L 5.1 event 50 min before the main quake and a M-L 4.5 event a week later. As a case study, we analyse the source parameters of the 2016 Gyeongju earthquake sequence: precise relocations, fault structures, focal mechanisms, stress tensor analysis and Coulomb stress changes. To determine high-resolution hypocentres and focal mechanisms, we employ our temporary seismic network for aftershock monitoring as well as regional permanent seismic networks. The spatio-temporal distribution of events and inverted moment tensors indicate that the M-L 5.1 event and the M-L 5.8 event occurred on two parallel dextral faults striking NNE-SSW at a depth of 11-16 km, and the M-L 4.5 event occurred on their conjugate fault with sinistral displacements. Seismicity on the fault for the M-L 5.1 event abruptly decreased as soon as the M-L 5.8 event occurred. This is not solely explained by the Coulomb stress change and requires more complex processes to explain it. The tectonic stress field obtained from inverted focal mechanisms suggests that the heterogeneity between the intermediate and minimum principal stresses exists along the NNE-SSW and vertical directions. The Coulomb stress changes imparted from the M-L 5.1 event and the M-L 5.8 event are matched with the off-fault seismicity, including that from the M-L 4.5 event. Multifaceted observations, such as Coulomb stress interactions between parallel or conjugate faults and the heterogeneity of the tectonic stress field in the aftershock area, may reflect the reactivation processes of a complex fault system. This study offers a distinctive case study to understand the general characteristics of intraplate earthquakes in multifault systems.
Machine learning regression can predict macroscopic fault properties such as shear stress, friction, and time to failure using continuous records of fault zone acoustic emissions. Here we show that a similar approach is successful using event catalogs derived from the continuous data. Our methods are applicable to catalogs of arbitrary scale and magnitude of completeness. We investigate how machine learning regression from an event catalog of laboratory earthquakes performs as a function of the catalog magnitude of completeness. We find that strong model performance requires a sufficiently low magnitude of completeness, and below this magnitude of completeness, model performance saturates. Plain Language Summary Seismologists analyze faults in the earth by creating earthquake catalogs-records of the times, locations, and sizes of earthquakes. For decades, researchers have attempted to use the these catalogs to predict the timing and size of future earthquakes. Recently, researchers have found that machine learning algorithms can forecast the motion of the fault using subtle creaking sounds, both in the laboratory and in the real world. These creaking sounds had previously been thought to be noise and were not commonly cataloged as earthquake activity. We installed a very powerful sensor in a laboratory fault and created a very detailed catalog that captures very small quakes-small enough that they would have looked like noise to a less powerful sensor. We then used machine learning on this catalog to try and forecast the large laboratory earthquakes. We found that machine learning model is successful when small-enough events are part of the catalog. This says that subtle seismic sounds that look like noise may be very small earthquakes that were previously overlooked. These findings suggest that to improve earthquake forecasting, we might broaden our ideas of what signals to label as potential earthquakes and save in catalogs.
Hydraulic properties of fault zones are important to understanding the pore pressure development and fault stability. In this work, we examined the relationship between water level changes caused by the 2008 Wenchuan M-w 7.9 earthquake and faults using four wells with the same lithology around the Three Gorges Dam, China. Two of the wells penetrating the fault damage zones recorded sustained water level changes, while the other two wells that are not penetrating any fault damage zones recorded transient water level changes. The phase shift and tidal factor calculated from water level, a proxy of permeability and storage coefficient, revealed that both the permeability and storage coefficient changed in the two wells penetrating the fault damage zones, while the other two wells not penetrating the fault damage zone did not show any change in permeability and storage coefficient. Thus, we tentatively suggest that faults may play an important controlling role on earthquake-induced hydrologic changes because the detrital or clogging components in the fractures may be more easily removed by seismic waves.</p>
In the article, using the example of earthquakes that occurred in Japan in 2003 and 2011, the results of the method verification proposed by the author for destructive earthquakes prediction arc given. The method involves the identification of zones with a seismic signal level higher in relation to the surrounding areas, the construction of a seismic signals total trend registered at each of the seismic stations located in this zone. The total trend is approximated by the trend model. The model is designed in such a way that the predicted parameters: the time of the earthquake and the coordinates of its epicenter are included in its mathematical structure. These parameters are determined in the parametric identification process of the model based on the results of seismic signals regular monitoring performed on each of the reference seismic stations. Further, on the basis of these data and the known strength of the reference earthquake, the strength of the future earthquake is determined. Verification showed that the prediction of earthquakes, carried out in accordance with the method considered in the article, has a high degree of reliability and stable repeatability of the forecast throughout the entire period of observation of the developing earthquake. This property of the technique is explained by the fact that it is based on the study of the dynamics of the change in the prognostic trait, and not on the generally accepted current consideration of the current (static) value of the trait. Positive results of verification served as the basis for the approbation of the method, which allowed predicting the time, coordinates of the epicenter and the strength of the ripening earthquakes in the Nanking Valley area.
An Ms7.0 earthquake occurred in Jiuzhaigou, Sichuan Province, China, on August 8, 2017. In this study, we used the vertical component data from 31 seismic stations near the epicenter from May 1 to August 20, 2017, to calculate the amplitude spectrum hourly using the fast Fourier transform method. Furthermore, the spectral area of the low frequency band (0.02-1 Hz), which represents the energy of low frequency motion, was calculated. In this way, the temporal and spatial variations in the vertical ground motion in this region were determined. Four high-value processes occurred in mid-June, mid-July, late July, and early August (the last three are discussed in this article). Based on a comparison with the local meteorological data, the meteorological factors had no influence, local geological factors did not affect the results, and typhoon factors did not show obvious correlation. Combined with the results of previous studies, we believe that the increase in the spectral area reflects the intense movement of deep material in the region related to the Jiuzhaigou earthquake. The spatial distribution of the spectral area (energy) reveals that the deep material moved eastward rapidly, was obstructed by the Sichuan Basin, and expanded to the northwest in a U-shaped channel, which may be the main dynamic factor for the formation or triggering of the earthquake.
Background: In 2015, Nepal was hit by two major earthquakes, which caused 8900 deaths and displaced more than 450,000 people. We assessed the prevalence of post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) and depressive symptoms and explored potential risk factors among adolescents. Methods: This cross-sectional study comprised 893 students aged 11-17 in school grades 7-10. They lived in two districts affected by the earthquakes: Sindhupalchok and Kathmandu. Psychiatric symptoms were assessed using Child PTSD symptom scale and Depression Self-Rating Scale. Multiple logistic regression analysis examined the associations between demographic, earthquake-related factors and psychiatric symptoms. Results: The prevalence of PTSS in the Sindhupalchok and Kathmandu districts were 39.5% and 10.7%, and depression symptoms were 40.4% and 23.2% respectively. The moderating effect of gender on the relationship between age and PTSS was significant. In the multivariate logistic analyses, the factors associated with PTSS and depression were: being female, prior exposure to trauma and being directly affected by the earthquakes. Limitations: Due to the lack of pre-earthquake prevalence rates, our estimates may have been due to chronic long-lasting problems of poverty and lack of access to physical and mental health services. The use of self-reported questionnaires might have overestimated the prevalence rates compared to psychiatric interviews. Conclusions: One year after the earthquakes, adolescents living in Sindhupalchok had a higher prevalence of PTSS and depressive symptoms than those living in Kathmandu. Socio-economic and earthquake-related factors were associated with psychiatric outcomes. The findings indicate the need for early psychosocial interventions, prevention and future research after emergency relief.
With its transparent and fast claims payment, parametric insurance has been widely used to insure nature-related risks such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes. In 2014, earthquake parametric insurance was introduced to provide coverage for earthquake losses occurred in Yunnan Province of China. However, as a main limitation of parametric insurance, basis risk is inevitable. In this paper, a Bayesian spatial quantile regression model is proposed to reduce the basis risk of earthquake parametric insurance. The effect of earthquake hazard, risk exposure, and vulnerability on economic loss are analyzed and considered in the quantile regression model. Since risk exposure and vulnerability at the epicenter cannot be observed, they will be treated as latent variables in the quantile regression model. Bayesian approaches are applied, and spatial correlation is considered to construct the prior distributions for the latent variables. Earthquake losses in Yunnan Province from 1992 to 2019 are collected and analyzed by the proposed model and methods. The payment mechanism and the corresponding premiums of 16 regions in Yunnan Province are then calculated. The results show that the loss ratio is more reasonable than the current earthquake insurance, and the basis risk is then reduced. (c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study tests three models for generating stochastic earthquake-tsunami scenarios on subduction zones by comparison with deep ocean observations from 18 tsunamis during the period 2006-2016. It focusses on the capacity of uncalibrated models to generate a realistic distribution of hypothetical tsunamis, assuming the earthquake location, magnitude and subduction interface geometry are approximately known, while details of the rupture area and slip distribution are unknown. Modelling problems like this arise in tsunami hazard assessment, and when using historical and palaeo-tsunami observations to study pre-instrumental earthquakes. Tsunamis show significant variability depending on their parent earthquake's properties, and it is important that this is realistically represented in stochastic tsunami scenarios. To clarify which aspects of earthquake variability should be represented, three scenario generation approaches with increasing complexity are tested: a simple fixed-area-uniform-slip (FAUS) model with earthquake area and slip deterministically related to moment magnitude; a variable-area-uniform-slip (VAUS) model which accounts for earthquake area variability; and a heterogeneous-slip (HS) model which accounts for both earthquake area variability and slip heterogeneity. The models are tested using deep-ocean tsunami time-series from 18 events 2006-2016) with moment magnitude M-w > 7.7. For each model and each observed event a 'corresponding family of model scenarios' is generated which includes stochastic scenarios with earthquake location and magnitude similar to the observation, with no additional calibration. For an ideal model (which perfectly characterizes the variability of tsunamis) the 18 observed events should appear like a random sample of size 18, created by taking one draw from each of the 18 'corresponding family of model scenarios'. This idea forms the basis of statistical techniques to test the models. First a goodness-of-fit criterion is developed to identify stochastic scenarios 'most similar' to the observed tsunamis, and assess the capacity of different models to produce good-fitting scenarios. Both the HS and VAUS models show similar capacity to generate tsunamis matching observations, while the FAUS model performs much more poorly in some cases. Secondly, the observed tsunami stage ranges are tested for consistency with the null hypothesis that they were randomly generated by the model. The null hypothesis cannot be rejected for the HS model, whereas both uniform-slip models exhibit a statistically significant tendency to produce small tsunamis too often. Finally, the statistical properties of slip for stochastic earthquake scenarios are compared against earthquake scenarios that best fit the observations. For the VAUS models the best-fitting model scenarios have higher slip on average than the stochastic scenarios, highlighting biases in this model. The techniques developed in this study can be applied to test stochastic tsunami scenario generation techniques, identify and partially correct their biases, and provide better justification for their use in applications.
The 2008 Wenchuan Earthquake caused topographic change in the stricken areas because of the occurrence of numerous coseismic landslides. The emergence of new landslides and debris flows and movement of loose materials under the driving force of high rainfall could further shape the local topography. Currently, little attention has been paid to continuously monitoring and assessing topographic changes after the major earthquake. In this research, we obtained an elevation dataset (2002,2010,2013 and 2015) based on digital elevation model (DEM) data and a DEM extracted from ZY-3 stereo paired images with validation by field measurement We quantitatively assessed elevation changes in different years and qualitatively analyzed spatiotemporal variation of the terrain and mass movement across the study area. The results show that the earthquake affected area experienced substantial elevation changes caused by seismic forces and subsequent rainfalls. High rainfall after the earthquake have become the biggest driver of elevation reduction, which overwhelmed elevation increase caused by the major earthquake. Increased post-earthquake erosion intensity has caused large amounts of loose materials to accumulate in river channels, and gullies and on upper-middle mountain slopes, which increases the risk of flooding and geo-hazards in the area (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Using global positioning system (GPS) observations of northeastern China and the southeast of the Russian Far East over the period 2012-2017, we derived an ITRF2014-referenced velocity field by fitting GPS time series with a functional model incorporating yearly and semiannual signals, linear trends, and offsets. We subsequently rotated the velocity field into a Eurasia-fixed velocity field and analyzed its spatial characteristics. Taking an improved multiscale spherical wavelet algorithm, we computed strain rate tensors and analyzed their spatial distribution at multiple scales. The derived Eurasia-referenced velocity field shows that northeastern China generally moved southeastward. Extensional deformation was identified at the Yilan-Yitong Fault (YYF) and the Dunhua-Mishan Fault (DMF), with negligible strike-slip rates. The principal strain rates were characterized by NE-SW compression and NW-SE extension. The dilation rates show compressional deformation in the southern segment of the YYF, northern end of the Nenjiang Fault (NJF), and southeast of the Russian Far East. We also investigated the impact of the 2011 Tohoku M-w 9.0 earthquake on the crustal deformation of northeastern China, generated by its post-seismic viscoelastic relaxation. The velocities generated by the post-seismic viscoelastic relaxation of the giant earthquake are generally orientated southeast, with magnitudes inversely proportional with the epicentral distances. The principal strain rates caused by the viscoelastic relaxation were also characterized by NW-SE stretching and NE-SW compression. The dilation rates show that compressional deformation appeared in the southern segment of the DMF and the YYF and southeast of the Russian Far East. Significant maximum shear rates were identified around the southern borderland between northeastern China and the southeast of the Russian Far East. Finally, we compared the multiple strain rates and the seismicity of northeastern China after the 2011 Tohoku earthquake. Our finding shows that the M-L >= 4.0 earthquakes were mostly concentrated around the zones of high areal strain rates and shear rates at scales of 4 and 5, in particular, at the DMF and YYF fault zones.
The creation of building exposure models for seismic risk assessment is frequently challenging due to the lack of availability of detailed information on building structures. Different strategies have been developed in recent years to overcome this, including the use of census data, remote sensing imagery and volunteered graphic information (VGI). This paper presents the development of a building-by-building exposure model based exclusively on openly available datasets, including both VGI and census statistics, which are defined at different levels of spatial resolution and for different moments in time. The initial model stemming purely from building-level data is enriched with statistics aggregated at the neighbourhood and city level by means of a Monte Carlo simulation that enables the generation of full realisations of damage estimates when using the exposure model in the context of an earthquake scenario calculation. Though applicable to any other region of interest where analogous datasets are available, the workflow and approach followed are explained by focusing on the case of the German city of Cologne, for which a scenario earthquake is defined and the potential damage is calculated. The resulting exposure model and damage estimates are presented, and it is shown that the latter are broadly consistent with damage data from the 1978 Albstadt earthquake, notwithstanding the differences in the scenario. Through this real-world application we demonstrate the potential of VGI and open data to be used for exposure modelling for natural risk assessment, when combined with suitable knowledge on building fragility and accounting for the inherent uncertainties.
Ground motion prediction equations (GMPEs) for earthquakes that occur in subduction zones, including both interface and slab parts, have a major impact on seismic hazard analysis in many parts of the world. For example, in the Sumatran subduction region, there could be a remarkable hazard for the Malay Peninsula due to the large megathrust earthquakes that occur far from the region along the subduction interface. This study has developed new empirical spectral GMPEs for long-distance subduction interface earthquakes based on the recorded ground motion data in the Malay Peninsula and Japan. The compiled ground motion database is from hundreds of ground motion recordings due to twenty five reliably identified subduction interface events with moment magnitude [M] of 5.0-9.1 and hypocentral distance (R-hyp) up to 1300 km. The data from the large megathrust earthquakes with M >= 7.0 such as 2011 M 9.1 Tohoku-Japan, the 2007 M 8.5 earthquake near Bengkulu in Sumatra Island, 2005 M 8.6 Nias-Sumatra, and 2004 M 9.0 Aceh-Sumatra earthquakes were included in the database. The proposed GMPEs are able to predict peak ground acceleration (PGA), peak ground velocity (PGV), and 5% damped pseudo-spectral acceleration (PSA) for four different site classes based on the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program (NEHRP) site classification. The results of this study could be applied to develop logic tree frameworks for seismic hazard analyses of Peninsular Malaysia as well as the regions affected by large and distant subduction interface earthquake events.
The 2018 Mw 6.4 Hualien earthquake and the 2019 Mw 6.1 Hualien earthquake occurred beneath the eastern coast of Taiwan, at depths of <similar to 20 km. The two earthquakes caused a total of 18 fatalities and widespread damage to infrastructures, especially in the Hualien City. To better understand the generating mechanism of the damaging earthquakes, we conducted seismic tomography to determine high-resolution 3-D models of P and S wave velocity (V-P, V-S) and Poisson's ratio (sigma) in the source zone. We used 334,645 P- and 238,581 S-wave arrival times of 20,825 local earthquakes (1.5 <= M-L <= 6.9) recorded at 47 seismic stations in Taiwan. Our results show that the hypocenters of the two Hualien mainshocks are located at a sharp vertical boundary where seismic velocity and Poisson's ratio change drastically in the horizontal direction, which corresponds to the location of the Longitudinal Valley Fault and its branches. Furthermore, the hypocenters are located right above a high-s anomaly that is connected to the estimated upper boundary of the subducting Philippine Sea slab, which may reflect ascending fluids dehydrated from the slab. These results suggest that the 2018 and 2019 Hualien earthquakes were triggered by ascending fluids from the slab dehydration, invading into active faults that may be the northern extension of the Longitudinal Valley Fault.
The Kishtwar-Chamba-Zanskar Region in Kashmir Himalaya show increased earthquake activity during last few years, especially, after the 2013 earthquake sequence in Kishtwar area that includes the 2013 Kishtwar earthquake (M-W 5.6). More recently, a similar sequence (2019-2020) has been recorded in the east (Zanskar) and southeast (Chamba) of Kishtwar area. We evaluate the present seismicity scenario of Kishtwar-Chamba-Zanskar Region, which involves spatio-temporal analysis, energy budget, slip-deficit, and coulomb stress transfer, using a homogenized earthquake catalog for the period from 1965 to July 2020. The analysis suggests that 2013 sequence occurred after a quiescence period of similar to 23 years, i.e., from 1991 to April 2013 and the study region was under stress shadow, possibly created by the 1991 Uttarkashi earthquake (M-W 6.8). Further, the recent seismic activity since 2013, mark the beginning of new earthquake cycle with frequent moderate earthquakes. The coulomb stress analysis further suggests that stress transfer due to 2013 Kishtwar earthquake (M-W 5.6) may have triggered the recent earthquake activity in the region, including 2019-2020 sequence. The energy budget and slip deficit calculated using the earthquake data of more than five decades, indicate that the region has the potential for a large earthquake of M-W similar to 7.0.
We investigate theoretical limits to detection of fast and slow seismic events, and spatial variations of ground motion expected from M 6 earthquakes at short epicentral distances. The analyses are based on synthetic velocity seismograms calculated with the discrete wavenumber method assuming seismic velocities and attenuation properties of the crust in Southern California. The examined source properties include different magnitudes (M -1.0 to M 6.0), static stress drops (0.1-10 MPa), and slow and fast ruptures (0.1-0.9 of shear wave velocity). For the M 6 events we also consider variations in rise times producing crack- and pulse-type events and different rupture directivities. Slow events produce ground motion with considerably lower amplitude than corresponding regular fast earthquakes with the same magnitude, and hence are significantly more difficult to detect. The static stress drop and slip rise time also affect the maximum radiated seismic motion, and hence event detectability. Apart from geometrical factors, the saturation and depletion of seismic ground motion at short epicentral distances stem from radiation pattern, earthquake size (magnitude, stress drop), and rupture directivity. The rupture velocity, rise time, and directivity affect significantly the spatial pattern of the ground motions. The results can help optimizing detection of slow and fast small earthquakes and understand the spatial distribution of ground motion generated by large events.
Along the Japan trench, the West Pacific plate is subducting beneath the Eurasian plate, reaching about 600 km depth below near the Hunchun area, Northeast China, as evidenced by deep earthquakes (with focal depth more than 300 km) observed. These quakes are notable for producing very few aftershocks in comparison with shallow earthquakes. There are 27 earthquakes deeper than 300 km in Northeast China reported by the International Seismological Centre (ISC) from August 2010 to December 2014. However, few foreshocks or aftershocks before and after these earthquakes are documented in the ISC catalog, which is unclear that whether this is due to detection threshold by limited station distribution or different mechanisms between the deep and shallow earthquakes. In this study, we employ continuous waveform data from August 2010 to December 2014 recorded by the dense NECsaids Array (Northeast China Seismic Array to Investigate Deep Subduction) and Jilin and Heilongjiang Seismic Networks to detect the aftershock productivity of deep earthquakes by using Match & Locate (M&L) and Matched Filter methods. The well recorded waveforms for the 27 deep earthquakes in the ISC catalogue are chosen as template waveforms, meanwhile the continuous waveforms recorded by the same seismic stations are used to detect their foreshocks or aftershocks. The 27 ISC-listed deep earthquakes are self-detected successfully with maximum CC (Cross-Correlation) approximate to 1. 0. However, we don't detect any more foreshocks or aftershocks before and after the deep template earthquakes. We also relocate the deep earthquakes in Northeast China from 1966 to 2017 based on the ISC bulletin data and our phase picking data, and almost all the double-difference relocated deep earthquakes occurred within the Metastable Olivine Wedge (MOW). The about 5 km depth difference within nearby hypocenters and about 0. 5 b-value for the deep earthquakes in Northeast China may indicate that these deep events are directly related to the subducting Pacific slab.
Scenarios of earthquake-induced landslides are necessary for seismic microzonation (SM) studies since they must be integrated with the mapping of instability areas. The PARSIFAL (Probabilistic Approach to pRovide Scenarios of earthquake-Induced slope FAiLures) approach provides extensive analyses, over tens to thousands of square kilometers, and is designed as a fully comprehensive methodology to output expected scenarios which depend on seismic input and saturation conditions. This allows to attribute a rating, in terms of severity level, to the landslide-prone slope areas in view of future engineering studies and designs. PARSIFAL takes into account first-time rock- and earth-slides as well as re-activations of existing landslides performing slope stability analyses of different failure mechanisms. The results consist of mapping earthquake-induced landslide scenarios in terms of exceedance probability of critical threshold values of co-seismic displacements (P[D >= Dc|a(t),a(y)]). PARSIFAL was applied in the framework of level 3 SM studies over the municipality area of Accumoli (Rieti, Italy), strongly struck by the 2016 seismic sequence of Central Apennines. The use of the PARSIFAL was tested for the first time to screen the Susceptibility Zones (ZS(FR)) from the Attention Zones (ZA(FR)) in the category of the unstable areas, according to the guidelines by Italian Civil Protection. The results obtained were in a GIS-based mapping representing the possibility for a landslide to be induced by an earthquake (with a return period of 475 years) in three different saturation scenarios (i.e. dry, average, full). Only 41% of the landslide-prone areas in the Municipality of Accumoli are existing events, while the remaining 59% is characterized by first-time earth- or rock-slides. In dry conditions, unstable conditions or P[D >= Dc|a(t),a(y)] > 0 were for 54% of existing landslides, 17% of first-time rock-slides and 1% of first-time earth-slides. In full saturation conditions, the findings are much more severe since unstable conditions or P[D >= Dc|a(t),a(y)] > 0 were found for 58% of the existing landslides and for more than 80% of first-time rock- and earth-slides. Moreover, comparison of the total area of the ZA(FR)versus ZS(FR), resulted in PARSIFAL screening reducing of 22% of the mapped ZA(FR).
The 2021 Maduo earthquake occurred in the interior of the Bayan Har block of the Tibetan Plateau. We used space-born radar interferometry to study the coseismic deformation of this earthquake. Sentinel-1 InSAR observations along ascending and descending orbits provide the coseismic deformation. Pixel offset tracking method is used to complement InSAR observations near the rupture zone. The surface trace of the ruptured fault can be clearly mapped by InSAR observations. We constructed a three-dimensional coseismic slip model constrained by interferograms and pixel offset tracking in the form of a geodetic inverse problem. The coseismic slip model demonstrates that: (1) the Maduo earthquake was a left-lateral strike-slip event with moment magnitude of 7.4; (2) the peak slip is approximately 8 m and is located at a depth of 4 km; (3) a 'shallow slip deficit' of the Maduo earthquake is observed; (4) the ruptured faults are found to be dipping northward with a high dipping angle (80 degrees). This study has important implications on earthquake hazard evaluation of the Bayan Har block.
The permanent analysis of the hydrogeodeformation (HGD) field is one promising direction in the field of predicting strong earthquakes. As a result of long-term monitoring of the HGD field, it has been found that the underground hydrosphere contains extensive information about changes in geodynamic stresses and the evolution of deformation processes in the Earth's crust. The development of short-term earthquake prediction methods has been preceded by long-term studies aimed at improving the HGD field monitoring. This paper presents examples of successful predictions of the place, time, and magnitude for a number of strong earthquakes. The examples are obtained based on a complex analysis of the variations in the HGD field. Proposals on the use of these methods for short-term prediction of strong seismic events in the near-real-time mode are formulated.
In this paper, we take the Junction of Shanxi-Hebei-Inner Mongolia area as study region using earthquake corresponding relevancy spectrum method (ECRS method) to identify comprehensive precursory anomalies before moderate-strong earthquake. On base of single-parameter relevancy spectrum database with target earthquake magnitude as Ms4.7 and initial earthquake magnitude as Ms1, we carry on multi- parameter analysis and find that result with time interval of 9 months and anomaly threshold with 0.40 times standard deviation has better prediction efficiency. Its anomaly corresponding rate and earthquake corresponding rate are 6/10 and 9/9 respectively.
As public acceptance of nuclear energy in Korea worsens due to the Fukushima accident and the earthquakes that occurred in the Gyeongju area near the Wolsong nuclear power plant (NPP), estimating the effects of earthquakes has become more essential for the nuclear industry. Currently, most countermeasures against earthquakes are limited to large-scale disasters. Minor-scale earthquakes used to be ignored. Even though people do not feel the shaking due to minor earthquakes and minor earthquakes incur little damage to NPPs, they can change the environmental conditions, for instance, underground water level and the conductivity of the groundwater. This study conducted a questionnaire survey of residents living in the vicinity of an NPP to determine their perception and acceptance of plant safety against minor earthquakes. The results show that the residents feel earthquakes at levels that can be felt by people, but incur little damage to NPPs, as minor earthquakes (magnitude of 2.0-3.9) and set this level as a standard for countermeasures. Even if a minor earthquake has little impact on the safety of an NPP, there is still a possibility that public opinion will get worse. This study provides analysis results about problems of earthquake measures of Korean NPPs and specific things that can bring about an effect of deterioration of public acceptance. Based on these data, this article suggests that active management of minor earthquakes is necessary for the sustainability of nuclear energy. (C) 2018 Korean Nuclear Society, Published by Elsevier Korea LLC.
Large earthquakes that have occurred along the North Anatolian Fault (NAF) were analysed to elaborate the time frame of future large earthquakes near Istanbul. The historical earthquake catalog that was compiled covered 1 nearly complete and 2 fully complete failures of the NAF between 1250 and 2000 AD. These data were used to investigate the space-time systematics of M >= 7.0 earthquakes. The catalogue identified an east-to-west decelerating domino-like failure of the NAF. The deceleration starts around the western tip of the 1944 Gerede rupture. This suggested that failure of the remaining unruptured similar to 250-km section in the west (Istanbul to Saros) will take substantially longer than failure of the already ruptured similar to 950-km section in the east (Karliova to Izmit). The calculations indicated that complete failure of the NAF will last for 243 +/- 3 years. The deceleration could not be explained by strain partitioning between the subparallel strands of the NAF in the Marmara region.
In this study, the seismic response analysis of embankment dams was investigated through numerical modeling. The seismic behavior of dams under main earthquake records and wavelet-based records were studied. Earthquake records were decomposed using de-noising method (DNM) and down-sampling method (DSM) up to five levels. In decomposition process, low and high frequencies of the main earthquake record were separated into two signals. Acceleration response, spectral acceleration, and Fourier amplitude spectrum at the crest of embankment dams under different decomposition levels were evaluated. The seismic behavior under main and decomposed earthquake records was compared. The results indicate an acceptable agreement between the seismic responses of embankment dams under wavelet-based decomposed records and main earthquake motions. Dynamic analyses show that the DNM-based decomposed earthquake records have a better performance compared to DSM-based records. DNM-based records up to level 4 and DSM-based records up to level 2 have a high accuracy in assessment of seismic behavior of embankment dams. The periods corresponding to the maximum values of acceleration spectra and the frequencies corresponding to the maximum values of Fourier amplitude spectra of embankment dam crest under main and decomposed records are in good agreement. The results demonstrate that the main earthquake records can be replaced by wavelet-based decomposed records in seismic analysis of embankment dams.
We perform kinematic and dynamic source inversions of four interplate thrust earthquakes that occurred near the trench at the base of the continental wedge in Northern Chile and we compare them to deeper intraplate events. The magnitudes of these interplate events were between Mw 6.3 and Mw 6.5, with hypocentral depths varying between 17.8 km and 28 km. These earthquakes correspond to one foreshock and three aftershocks of the large 2014 Mw 8.2 Iquique earthquake. The geometry of the seismic rupture obtained from the kinematic and dynamic inversions were similar for the four earthquakes studied and their dynamic source parameters are in accordance with typical interplate earthquakes around Mw 6.5. We compare the dynamic rupture of these events with those of five intraplate, intermediate-depth earthquakes that occurred in Northern Chile, Japan, Argentina and Mexico with depths between 57 km and 250 km. We also compare these events with the Mw 6.9 Valparaiso earthquake that was also a shallow interplate thrust event. Results show that the main dynamic parameters of the interplate events (stress in the nucleation zone, overall stress drop and fracture energy rate) were smaller than those of the intraplate intermediate-depth earthquakes. Furthermore, we compare our results with those obtained with several methodologies commonly used to estimate values of stress drop, fault radius and corner frequency. We find some minor differences between them for most of the earthquakes analyzed. Finally, we infer from our results that the studied area, located in the subduction interface zone near the trench, is suitable for earthquake nucleation of small to moderate earthquakes and does not represent a barrier for a future large tsunamigenic rupture. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The b value in the frequency-magnitude relation is commonly used in the analysis of seismic hazards based on its inverse relationship with stress. When analyzing the b value, spatial scanning is performed for a specific period, or the change in the b value over time is analyzed for a selected region. The spatial distribution of the b value shows how the value differs from place to place. But it is difficult to associate such spatial differences of the b value with the occurrence of major earthquakes. Similarly, when analyzing the variation in the b value over time for a selected region, it is difficult to ensure that the area of abnormal b values lies completely within the selected region. Case studies have shown that for some earthquakes, the b value exhibits a decreasing tendency from several months to several years before earthquake occurrence. In this article, we focus on temporal changes of the b value and adopted the lattice searching for analyzing anomalies in the b value prior to the 1976 Ms7. 8 Tangshan earthquake. The results show that, in this case, the abnormal drop of the b value was concentrated in the Beijing -TianjinTangshan area, and the b value decreased from 1. 1 to 0. 72 a relative fall of 35% within this area during the 17 -month period from June 1973 to October 1974. In the subsequent 20 months prior to the earthquake, the b value remained low without substantial changes. The strain release within the area of the b value anomaly accelerated from April 1975 to June 1976, during which the b-value was still low.
The study focuses on the effects of liquefaction on structures taken from data on about 1000 private residential masonry buildings located in several municipalities struck by the 2012 Emilia earthquake. Survey data were collected by teams of experts coordinated by the Italian Department of Civil Protection in the immediate post-earthquake emergency phase. They included information on building characteristics and the level and extent of the damage to structural and non-structural components. Furthermore, according to data related to the reconstruction process, information on the liquefaction-induced type and extent of the damage was also collected. Through a comparative analysis of the empirical damage, it was found that liquefaction strongly affected the buildings, confirming its relevance in the damage scenario under specific subsoil conditions. Based on this evidence, the article proposes a correlation between structural damage and liquefaction when it comes to deriving proper preliminary empirical fragility curves. A suitable parameter to define liquefaction effects at ground level is introduced and correlated to damage grades defined according to the European Macroseismic Scale: EMS-98.
Introduction: An earthquake is an intense shaking of earth's surface which is caused by movements in earth's outermost layer. The earthquake of 25th April 2015, with a magnitude of 7.8 richter scale with its major aftershock on 12th May 2015 of 7.3 richter scale daimed around 8,962 lives across several districts of Nepal with 22,302 injuries. In this study we tried to figure out various surgical cases and the surgical procedures performed in a tertiary care hospital during an earthquake disaster. Methods: This study was a descriptive cross-sectional study of hospital data on all admitted surgical cases during an earthquake disaster. A total of 238 earthquake victims brought to emergency department of Kathmandu Medical College Teaching Hospital, a tertiary care center, from 26th April 2015 to 7th Jun 2015, for the period of 42 days were included. Those brought dead and discharged after primary treatments were excluded. Data obtained were entered and analysed in Microsoft Excel 2010. Results: Among 238 patients enrolled, 122 (51%) were male and 116 (49%) female with male to female ratio of 1.05:1. Age group (31-60 years) with an average age of 45 years were encountered most frequently 110 (46%) with the maximum number of patient burden from Sindhupalchowk district 80 (33.6%). Orthopedic surgery 185 (76%) appeared to be the most frequent followed by neurosurgery, plastic surgery, general surgery and dental surgery. Conclusions: In natural disaster like earthquakes, traumatic injuries are very common and thereby various surgical procedures especially ortho-plastic are the domain of treatment modalities. Disaster preparedness and combined surgical team effort needs to be focused to reduce both mortality and morbidity.
Seismic stress drop is a fundamental parameter for the investigation of earthquake mechanism. In general, it is indirectly predicted by fault slip based on the dislocation source model or seismic moment; inversion for the stress change on faults has not received the deserved attention. In this study, we propose a finite element method to invert the stress drop on fault, constrained by the observed coseismic deformation. Rupture termination and displacement on fault are automatically predicted from the model. Applying the method to the 2011 M(w)9.0 Tohoku-Oki earthquake, we find that the fault consists of two asperities with maximum shear stress drops of 11.7 and 10.1MPa, respectively. The predicted maximum horizontal and vertical displacements on the hanging wall at the Japan Trench are 55.2 and 10.8m, respectively, in good agreement with observation. The predicted total static moments of the mainshock and the M(w)7.9 aftershock, 29min after the mainshock, are 4.48x10(22) and 1.46x10(21)Nm, corresponding to moment magnitudes of M(w)9.0 and M(w)8.0, respectively, again in excellent agreement with the observationally determined M(w)9.0 and M(w)7.9 by the U.S. Geological Survey. Plain Language Summary This paper provides a method to invert for the static stress drop induced by earthquake based on an earthquake stress model. The model is supposed to consist of two elastic blocks connected by interface or fault, across which normal displacement is continuous and stress is the same in magnitude and opposite in direction on its two sides. We use the method and earthquake stress model to invert for the stress drop of the 2011 giant Tohoku-Oki earthquake. From the stress drop we found two asperities in the fault rupture area which is enclosed by a zero shear stress drop line. The maximum fault slip is at the trench, not at the place of the maximum stress drop.
We present a 2-D thermomechanical computational framework for simulating earthquake sequences in a non-linear visco-elasto-plastic compressible medium. The method is developed for a plane-strain problem and incorporates an invariant formulation of the classical rate- and state-dependent friction law and an adaptive time-stepping, which allows the time step to vary by many orders of magnitude during a simulation. Long-term tectonic convergence is imposed by displacing a boundary at a constant rate, whereas temperature-dependent viscosity is solved using a rapidly converging Newton-Raphson scheme. The 2-D volume is discretized using finite differences on a fully staggered grid and marker-in-cell techniques. An adaptive free-surface approximation is used to modulate the air viscosity with the time step, which allows stresses to vanish on the free surface during the propagation of fast slipping events. We present a set of increasingly complex models in which we investigate how inertia, radiation damping, thermally activated non-linear rheology and off-megathrust splay-fault events affect sequences of seismic and aseismic slip on a simplified subduction megathrust. The new method provides a unique computational framework to analyse earthquake sequences and to connect forearc deformation with the dynamic properties of the megathrust, thus providing a physical link between observations spanning from slow interseismic strain accumulation to localized coseismic slip of individual earthquakes and post-seismic viscoelastic relaxation.
We construct a classification model, that predicts if an earthquake with the magnitude above a threshold will take place at a given location in a time range 30-180 days from now. A common approach is to use expert-generated features like Region-Time-Length (RTL) features as an input to the model. The proposed approach aggregates of multiple generated RTL features to take into account effects at various scales and to improve the quality of a machine learning model. For our data on Japan earthquakes 1992-2005 and predictions at locations given in this database, the best model provides precision as high as 0.95 and recall as high as 0.98.
We present a tutorial demonstration using a surrogate-model based uncertainty quantification (UQ) approach to study dynamic earthquake rupture on a rough fault surface. The UQ approach performs model calibration where we choose simulation points, fit and validate an approximate surrogate model or emulator, and then examine the input space to see which inputs can be ruled out from the data. Our approach relies on the mogp_emulator package to perform model calibration, and the FabSim3 component from the VECMA toolkit to streamline the workflow, enabling users to manage the workflow using the command line to curate reproducible simulations on local and remote resources. The tools in this tutorial provide an example template that allows domain researchers that are not necessarily experts in the underlying methods to apply them to complex problems. We illustrate the use of the package by applying the methods to dynamic earthquake rupture, which solves the elastic wave equation for the size of an earthquake and the resulting ground shaking based on the stress tensor in the Earth. We show through the tutorial results that the method is able to rule out large portions of the input parameter space, which could lead to new ways to constrain the stress tensor in the Earth based on earthquake observations. This article is part of the theme issue 'Reliability and reproducibility in computational science: implementing verification, validation and uncertainty quantification in silico'.
Soon after an earthquake, the government should conduct a rapid assessment to determine the spatial distributions of the damages, including casualties, collapsed houses, infrastructures, and secondary disasters. The government can then allocate rescue teams and distribute rescue resources according to these factors. This paper introduces the process of rapid earthquake disaster assessment and describes the ioseismal attenuation model, damaged buildings model, economic losses model, and fatalities model. All the disaster loss assessment models are integrated into a geographic information system (GIS). Four earthquakes, for which adequate published records are available, are selected to examine the performance of the GIS-based rapid assessment in helping the government to perform emergency rescue work. The calculated results of the four selected earthquakes indicate that the intensities of the meizoseismal area and the affected area have the acceptable mean accuracies between 97.5% and 76.5%. The mean accuracies of the number of fatalities and direct economic losses are 66.1% and 54.2%, respectively, whereas the affected population, the number of damaged houses, and the number of injured people have relatively lower mean accuracies. Although the assessment results are not absolutely accurate, the spatial distribution of the results corresponds with the actual situation.
The paper presents the results of an ongoing research project on the performance of the SASMEX system following the two earthquakes that hit Mexico City in 2017, (a) the 7 September, and (b) the 19 September. In an earlier work, some preliminary findings on the perceived usefulness of the system have been reported. The aim of the present study is the identification of the precursors leading to the outcome variable ('Usefulness of the SASMEX system'). An ordinal logistic regression analysis has been conducted. The influential factors leading to (a) are the following: the 1985 earthquake experience, drills participation, current knowledge, knowledge on what to do, fear during the tremors, education level, earthquake severity impact. The identified influential factors leading to (b) are the following: knowledge vs. drills, fear of building collapsing, and warning time. The main conclusion of the study is that the outcome is warning time dependent following an event. When there is 'enough time' to take protective actions, such as in (a), the probability of the system being considered Useful is higher than otherwise. Conversely, if there is not enough warning time, such as in (b), the probability of the system being considered Not useful is higher than otherwise.</p>
In 1997 Russian scientist Morozova found some cloud anomalies possibly related to active fault systems and earthquakes. Now, 24 years later, the correlation between clouds and earthquakes is still controversial, and in this paper we checked systematically the satellite images in Italy from 2010 to 2013. The correlation between earthquakes and cloud anomalies was statistically examined by assuming different various leading times and magnitudes. The result showed that when the leading time interval was set to 23 <=Delta T <= 45 days and the magnitude is bigger than or equal to M4.7, 70% of earthquakes were preceded by cloud anomalies. Poisson random test showed that anomaly appearance rate (AAR) and earthquake occurrence rate (EOR) was much higher than those derived in a random situation, which means it is nearly impossible to deny the correlation between cloud anomaly and land earthquakes in Italy. Error matrix analysis showed this method provides 75% overall accuracy for the 52 total cases. Analysis also showed that cloud method provides a very high AAR value and similar EOR value compared with other earthquake prediction methods based on ionospheric or skin temperature data. The physical mechanism of cloud anomaly was likely caused by electric field, which linked active fault, atmosphere circuit conduction current, and cloud anomaly, and thus provides a reasonable hypothesis of cloud anomaly.
Large earthquakes, accompanied by many smaller ones in between, frequently strike New Zealand and adjoining areas. This study implements the earthquake nowcasting method and presents the results in terms of earthquake potential score (EPS) at 15 major population centers in New Zealand. Based on seismicity data, the EPS incorporates ensemble seismicity statistics in a discrete natural time domain to estimate the current level of seismic cycle progress on a 0-100% scale of extremity. Natural times mark the evolution of the process in terms of small interevent counts between consecutive large earthquakes in a defined area. Statistical inference from exponential, gamma, Weibull and exponentiated exponential distributions indicates natural time Weibull statistics in the study area. With the derived EPS corresponding to M >= 6 events, the following ranking of cities is observed, in decreasing order: Palmerston North (97%), Auckland (96%), Lower Hutt (95%), Porirua (95%), Wellington (95%), Nelson (94%), Hibiscus Coast (93%), Christchurch (92%), Invercargill (91%), Napier (87%), Rotorua (84%), Tauranga (82%), Dunedin (81%), Hamilton (77%) and Gisborne (6%). These nowcast scores are largely stable against some variations in the threshold magnitude, catalog time period and city region. Results of the contemporary earthquake hazard serve a variety of end-user applications in New Zealand.
Earthquakes prediction is considered the holy grail of seismology. After almost a century of efforts without convincing results, the recent raise of machine learning (ML) methods in conjunction with the deployment of dense seismic networks has boosted new hope in this field. Even if large earthquakes still occur unanticipated, recent laboratory, field, and theoretical studies support the existence of a preparatory phase preceding earthquakes, where small and stable ruptures progressively develop into an unstable and confined zone around the future hypocenter. The problem of recognizing the preparatory phase of earthquakes is of critical importance for mitigating seismic risk for both natural and induced events. Here, we focus on the induced seismicity at The Geysers geothermal field in California. We address the preparatory phase of M similar to 4 earthquakes identification problem by developing a ML approach based on features computed from catalogues, which are used to train a recurrent neural network (RNN). We show that RNN successfully reveal the preparation of M similar to 4 earthquakes. These results confirm the potential of monitoring induced microseismicity and should encourage new research also in predictability of natural earthquakes.
The focal mechanisms of earthquakes in the Mediterranean region that do not match the double couple focal model and that describe the complex source rupture are considered. Analysis is performed by decomposition of the observed seismic moment tensor of the strongest earthquakes into isotropic (ISO), double couple (DC), and compensated linear vector dipole (CLVD) components. There were 121 earth- quakes with magnitudes over 5.5 in the region according to the observations for 2000-2019. Of these, 57 events do not match the double couple model. The CLVD parameters are obtained for these earthquakes, and the physical interpretation of the results of the seismic moment tensor decomposition are proposed. This is the first time such an analysis is conducted. Conclusions about the features of the observed destruction processes and the structure of the medium in the focal zones are made based on the results.
Rapid magnitude estimation relations for earthquake early warning systems in the Alborz region have been developed based on the initial first seconds of the P-wave arrival. For this purpose, a total of 717 accelerograms recorded by the Building and Housing Research Center in the Alborz region with the magnitude (M-w) range of 4.8-6.5 in the period between 1995 and 2013 were employed. Average ground motion period (c) and peak displacement (Pd) in different time windows from the P-wave arrival were calculated, and their relation with magnitude was examined. Four earthquakes that were excluded from the analysis process were used to validate the results, and the estimated magnitudes were found to be in good agreement with the observed ones. The results show that using the proposed relations for the Alborz region, earthquake magnitude could be estimated with acceptable accuracy even after 1s of the P-wave arrival.
On 26th October 2015, an M-w 7.5 earthquake struck northern Pakistan, with its epicenter located 45 km southwest of Jarm in the Hindu Kush region of Afghanistan. The earthquake resulted from reverse faulting at a depth of 210 km, resulting in 280 fatalities and substantial damage to some 109,123 buildings. Regional seismicity, characteristics of recorded strong motions, damage statistics, and building performance observations are presented. Earthquake damage was mostly constrained to seismic-deficient unreinforced masonry (URM) buildings. Typical failure modes included toppled minarets, partial or complete out of plane collapse of URM walls, diagonal shear cracking in piers, flexural cracking in spandrels, corner damage, pounding damage, and damage due to ground settlement. The majority of human loss resulted due to failure of URM walls and subsequent roof collapse. URM buildings located in rural hilly areas closer to the epicenter suffered more intense and frequent damage than urban URM buildings located farther away in larger cities.
Introduction: Italy is prone to major earthquakes and has experienced several devastating earthquakes in the far and recent past. The objectives of this study were to assess the level of Italian households' preparedness for earthquakes and to measure the public's perception of the risk and its impact on preparedness behavior. Hypothesis: Italian households' preparedness for earthquakes is insufficient and is influenced by different threat perception components that were assessed. Methods: A cross-sectional study, using an online questionnaire, was conducted in early 2018. The sample included 1,093 responders from a diverse sociodemographic background. The primary outcome was the Preparedness Index (PI), a score indicating the number of preparedness actions complied-with out of 10. Results: The PI's mean was 5.26 (SD = 2.17). The recommendation most complied-with was keeping a flashlight at home (87.7%) and the least was securing the kitchen cupboards (15.1%). The PI was positively correlated with a higher sense of preparedness (r = 0.426; P <.001). The PI was higher for responders residing in high-seismic-risk areas and those who experienced a major earthquake before. The predictors of PI were: gender, age, prior experience, sense of preparedness, searching for information, and threat intrusiveness (negatively). Conclusions: The findings demonstrate a medium-level of preparedness; however, this might be circumstantial. Italians perceive major earthquakes to be unlikely, yet severe if and when they do occur. A validated tool in Italian now exists and can be used in future studies.
This study aims to investigate the computational effect of Earth's viscosity on the Coulomb stress changes. Therefore, several large earthquakes in the Alborz region are selected and Coulomb stress changes are calculated in them, then the Coulomb stress temporal changes are shown by assuming the earth as an elastic layer on a viscous- elastic half-space. The spatial and temporal changes of the crustal deformation process associated with earthquakes depend on several parameters including the thickness of the lithosphere, viscosity of the asthenosphere, and dip angle of fault. The findings of this study are presented by determining the impact of modeling results on each of the input parameters through the sensitivity analysis of co-seismic and post-seismic deformation due to the dip-slip and strike-slip faulting. In addition to the useful results reported for the impact of parameters, the obtained results indicate the occurrence of numerous aftershocks in a region with increased Coulomb stress from 0.1 to 0.8 bar and the non-occurrence or low-occurrence of aftershocks in a region with reduced Coulomb stress. In addition to the predicted locations of aftershocks, it is also possible to determine the location of the next major earthquake using Coulomb stress change calculations.
In this study, temporal trend of researches in earthquake with groundwater level, water quality, radon, remote sensing, electrical resistivity, gravity, and geomagnetism was searched from 2001 to 2020, using the journals indexed in Web of Science, and the number of articles published in international journals was counted in relation to the occurrences of earthquakes (>= M-w 5.0, >= M-w 6.0, >= M-w 7.0, >= M-w 8.0, and >= M-w 9.0). The number of articles shows an increasing trend over the studied period. This is explained by that studies on earthquake precursor and seismic monitoring becomes active in various fields with integrated data analysis through the development of remote sensing technology, progress of measurement equipment, and big data. According to Mann-Kendall and Sen's tests, gravity-related articles exhibit an increasing trend of 1.30 articles/yr, radon-related articles (0.60 articles/yr), groundwater-related articles (0.70 articles/yr), electrical resistivity-related articles (0.25 articles/yr), and remote-sensing-related articles (0.67 articles/yr). By cross-correlation analysis of the number of articles in each field with removing trend effect and the number of earthquakes of >= M-w 5.0, >= M-w 6.0, >= M-w 7.0, >= M-w 8.0, and >= M-w 9.0, radon and remote sensing fields exhibit a high cross-correlation with a delay time of one year. In addition, large-scale earthquakes such as the 2004 and 2005 Sumatra earthquake, the 2008 Sichuan earthquake, the 2010 Haiti earthquake, and the 2010 Chile earthquake are estimated to be related with the increase in the number of articles in the corresponding periods.
We report that asperities with the highest coseismic slip in the 2014 M(W)6.9 North Aegean earthquake persisted through the interseismic, coseismic and immediate post-seismic periods. We use GPS and seismic data to obtain the source model of the 2014 earthquake, which is located on the western extension of the North Anatolian Fault (NAF). The earthquake ruptured a bilateral, 90 km strike-slip fault with three slip patches: one asperity located west of the hypocentre and two to the east with a rupture duration of 40 s. Relocated pre-earthquake seismicity and aftershocks show that zones with significant coseismic slip were relatively quiet during both the 7 yr of interseismic and the 3-month aftershock periods, while the surrounding regions generated significant seismicity during both the interseismic and post-seismic periods. We interpret the unusually long fault length and source duration, and distribution of pre- and post-main-shock seismicity as evidence for a rupture of asperities that persisted through strain accumulation and coseismic strain release in a partially coupled fault zone. We further suggest that the association of seismicity with fault creep may characterize the adjacent Izmit, Marmara Sea and Saros segments of the NAF. Similar behaviour has been reported for sections of the San Andreas Fault, and some large subduction zones, suggesting that the association of seismicity with creeping fault segments and rapid relocking of asperities may characterize many large earthquake faults.
In recent years, one of the most important goals of urban managers has been the planning for resilience to natural disasters, especially earthquakes. Babol, as the second most populous city of Mazandaran province in northern Iran, is exposed to earthquakes due to its proximity to two active faults, the Caspian Sea and northern Alborz. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effective physical indicators in the resilience rate of 22 neighborhoods of Babol. The research method is descriptive-analytical and applied-developmental. Accordingly, 48 effective indicators in the physical dimension were extracted and evaluated for their suitability through KMO test in consultation with experts and professors in urban planning, crisis management and earthquake. Then, the selected indices were reduced to four factors by factor analysis, which accounted for 61.9% of the variance. Among the four factors, the first factor alone accounted for 24.8% of the variance, which is the most influential factor in the study, and the fourth factor with 10.3% of the variance has the least effect. Cluster analysis was used for homogeneous classification of the neighborhoods and Babol's 22 neighborhoods were classified into 8 homogeneous groups. The results of clustering method show that about 40.9% of neighborhoods are evaluated as very poor, poor and relatively poor and in undesirable conditions in general. Also, about 18.2% of the neighborhoods are in the medium level and about 40.2% of the neighborhoods are evaluated as good, very good, excellent and very excellent levels in terms of physical resilience.
One large landslide (Soleghan) in the north of the megacity, Tehran, has been surveyed for dating with OSL methods. Landslide dammed-lake deposits of the Soleghan landslide was used to obtain the age of the landslide event using the SAR protocol for both quartz and feldspar grains. The age of the event was 1.09 +/- 0.09 ka for quartz, and 1.03 +/- 0.08 ka and 1.10 +/- 0.13 ka for feldspars (stimulation at 50 degrees C and 225 degrees C, respectively). These results suggest that the Soleghan mass movement was an earthquake-induced landslide triggered by the 23rd February 958 7.7 M Ray-Taleghan/Ruyan earthquake. Based on this work, thorough review studies of landslides using OSL dating methods can be used to determine the age of other mass movements in Iran. Multiple landslides with identical ages, which may be attributed to a seismic event, could be created by a known earthquake or an unknown earthquake. Subsequently, finding an unknown earthquake will complete the earthquake catalogue resulting in a better hazard assessment.
On August 8, 2017, the Jiuzhaigou Mw 6.5 earthquake occurred in Sichuan province, southwestern China, along the eastern margin of the Tibetan Plateau. The epicenter is surrounded by the Minjiang, Huya, and Tazang Faults. As the seismic activity and tectonics are very complicated, there is controversy regarding the accurate location of the epicenter and the seismic fault of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake. To investigate these aspects, first, the coseismic deformation field was derived from Global Positioning System (GPS) and Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) measurements. Second, the fault geometry, coseismic slip model, and Coulomb stress changes around the seismic region were calculated using a homogeneous elastic half-space model. The coseismic deformation field derived from InSAR measurements shows that this event was mainly dominated by a left-lateral strike-slip fault. The maximal and minimal displacements were approximately 0.15 m and -0.21 m, respectively, along line-of-sight observation. The whole deformation field follows a northwest-trending direction and is mainly concentrated west of the fault. The coseismic slip is 28 km along the strike and 18 km along the dip. It is dominated by a left-lateral strike-slip fault. The average and maximal fault slip is 0.18 and 0.85 m, respectively. The rupture did not fully reach the ground surface. The focal mechanism derived from GPS and InSAR data is consistent with the kinematics and geometry of the Huya Fault. Therefore, we conclude that the northern section or the Shuzheng segment of the Huya Fault is the seismogenic fault. The maximal fault slip is located at 33.25 degrees N and 103.82 degrees E at a depth of similar to 11 km, and the release moment is approximately 6.635 x 10(18) Nm, corresponding to a magnitude of Mw 6.49, which is consistent with results reported by the US Geological Survey, Global Centroid Moment Tensor, and other researchers. The coseismic Coulomb stress changes enhanced the stress on the northwest and southeast edges of the northern extension of the Huya Fault. Seismic risks cannot be ignored in the future although aftershocks are fewer in number in these regions.
On 15 November 2017, an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.4 caused geotechnical damage over a wide area of Pohang, South Korea. In this study, the UBCSAND constitutive effective stress model is calibrated by cyclic direct simple shear (CDSS) tests conducted on a type of sand from liquefied paddy fields at Pohang under confining stresses of 100 and 200 kPa. The calibrated UBCSAND model is then used to assess the liquefaction and calculate the ground settlement based on standard penetration test (SPT) data near the epicenter of the Pohang earthquake. The liquefaction characteristics from the UBCSAND model matched those from laboratory tests. According to the numerical results, liquefaction mostly occurred within the uppermost 10 m, and ground surface settlement from excess pore water pressure dissipation varied from 3.86 to 10.95 cm. These settlements were higher than the surface displacement estimated by satellite image analysis with interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR) and lower than the ground subsidence observed solely by visiting the sites.
The Da'an-Dedu Fault Zone (DDFZ) is a major tectonic feature cutting through the Songliao Basin from south to north in NE China. Pulsed compression deformation of DDFZ during the Cenozoic implies a complex geodynamic process, and the latest stage of which occurred in the Quaternary directly influences the present seismicity of the interior basin. Although most of the evidence for Quaternary deformation about the Songliao Basin in the past decades was concentrated in marginal faults, all five earthquake swarms with magnitudes over 5.0 along the buried DDFZ with no surface expression during the past 30 years suggest it is a main seismogenic structure with seismic potential, which should deserve more attention of geologists. However, limited by the coverage of the Quaternary sedimentary and absence of strong historic and instrumental earthquakes records (M > 7), the geometric pattern, Quaternary activity and seismic potential of the DDFZ remain poorly understood. Thus, unlike previous geophysical studies focused on crust/mantle velocity structure across the fault and the aim of exploring possible mineral resources in the basin, in this study we have integrated a variety of the latest seismic data and drilling holes from petroleum explorations and shallow-depth seismic reflection profiles, to recognize the Cenozoic pulsed compression deformation of the DDFZ, and to discuss its implication for earthquake potential. The results show that at least four stages of compression deformation have occurred along the DDFZ in the Cenozoic: similar to 65 Ma, similar to 23 Ma, similar to 5.3 Ma, and similar to 1.8 Ma, respectively, although the geodynamic process behind which still in dispute. The results also imply that the tectonic style of the DDFZ fits well with the occurrence of modem seismic swarms. Moderate earthquake potential (M <= 7.0) is suggested along the DDFZ.
At 14:28 on May 12, 2008 (Beijing time), Wenchuan, in the Sichuan Province of China, experienced a Ms 8.0 earthquake. To investigate the spectral centroid amplitude changes that occurred before and during this earthquake, we gathered data from ten seismic stations located near the Longmenshan fault zone from May 1, 2008, to May 12, 2008. After using FFT to isolate the hourly seismic data, we then calculated the spectral centroid amplitudes in the 0.1-0.5 Hz frequency band. Overall, the spectral centroid amplitude had increased dramatically since May 10; the most anomalous amplitude increase, which likely preceded the actual seismic event itself, was recorded at YZP, the station closest to the epicenter. Once the earthquake initiated, we observed the strongest ground motion in the vertical and north-south directions along the Longmenshan fault. To further constrain any changes that occurred prior to the earthquake, we applied multi-scale wavelet decomposition to geomagnetic data collected from April 4 to May 12. The geomagnetic anomalies we found in this data correspond temporally with the spectral centroid amplitude anomalies. Based on these analyses, we inferred that the Wenchuan earthquake was driven by stress accumulation due to the compression of the Longmenshan fault system by the Bayankala Block to the west and deep obstruction by the hard basement material of the Sichuan Basin to the east. Our results agree with other investigations of the Wenchuan earthquake. We believe that the spectral centroid amplitude method is an effective and reliable technique for extracting anomaly data prior to the onset of great earthquakes, and that it can provide insight into the dynamic seismogenic process.
The 2015 Mw 7.8 Gorkha Nepal Earthquake had severely damaged buildings producing massive amount of debris. This paper assessed the amount of debris generated and construction waste during post-earthquake housing reconstruction in the earthquake most affected two districts. The study was carried out between April 2017 to December 2019, in Gorkha and Sindhupalchok districts of Nepal. The questionnaire survey were conducted in 17,814 households (Gorkha: 4896 and Sindhupalchok: 12,918) that were reconstructed after the earthquake. The sample household was selected randomly and the amount of debris and waste generated from each household was visually estimated. A z-test was performed to determine the quantity of debris and waste generated in each household at district as well as local administrative level. The result showed significant difference between the total amounts of debris generated in two districts - Gorkha (m = 17.03 m(3)/HHs; SD = +/- 10.15) and Sindhupalchok (m = 21.61 m(3)/HHs; SD +/- 8.92). Construction waste that was produced in construction sites in Gorkha and Sindhupalchok were 1.11 m(3)/HHs and 1.59 m(3)/HHs respectively. Proper management of debris and waste was lacking due to the absence of policies and guidelines on debris and waste in Nepal. However, individuals reused 57.96% of generated debris for housing reconstruction. The study recommends for preparation of debris and waste management plan for the future reconstruction activities.
Time series analysis of soil radon data has previously been proposed as a mechanism for earthquake hazard forecasting, but it is not universally accepted as such. Here we perform time series analysis of soil radon along an active fault zone in North Pakistan, in order to investigate pre-earthquake anomalies for a period of July 24, 2014 to April 30, 2015. The methodology includes geochemical analysis of soil, deterministic analysis (Hurst exponent H), quantification of meteorological influence and abnormalities of soil radon within the context of earthquake forecasting. In particular, for analyzing abnormalities in radon data, we have used residual signal processing techniques to reduce the regular effect of meteorological factors and a statistical criterion (x +/- 2 sigma) at a 95% confidence interval. Results of geochemical analysis suggest that any abnormal enhancement in soil radon concentration is not associated with the presence of key radionuclides such as Ra-226, Th-232 and K-40. The deterministic analysis of radon and meteorological parameters reveals that H belongs to the interval 0.5 <= H <= 1, which indicates a persistent trend with insignificant infrequency and irregularity. Likewise, the influence of meteorological parameters on soil radon is quantified via correlation coefficients suggesting an insignificant impact. Furthermore, temporal variability of residual radon around the time of earthquake activity reveals the presence of six notable anomalous peaks overpassing the statistical criterion during the investigated period. An absence of anomalous residual radon behavior for some earthquake events in the investigated period can be attributed to their low magnitude and high R-E/R-D value. Finally, our results validate earlier findings and recommend the use of radon as a seismic indicator.
Frequent earthquakes have brought enormous life and property losses to Taiwan Island, and thus reliable earthquake forecasts are valuable. We form 20 tectonics-based shallow earthquake forecasts of Taiwan Island for the years 2019 and after, each with a different threshold moment magnitude, ranging from 5.45 in steps of 0.05 up to 6.40. Our results suggest that Taiwan Island may experience about 25 Mw >= 6.25, 40 Mw >= 6.00, 65 Mw >= 5.75 and 106 Mw >= 5.50 shallow earthquakes every 100 years. We demonstrate the consistency between the forecast results and the seismic catalog used for the forecasts and carry out retrospective tests against the seismic catalogs of Taiwan Island not used in the forecasts, which show higher forecast success relative to previous studies of global earthquake forecasts. We identify three gaps of Mw >= 6.40 shallow earthquakes, located in Yilan County, Hualien County and Taitung County. We find a general negative correlation between our Mw >= 6.40 shallow earthquake forecast and the population density distribution in Taiwan Island. However, we emphasize that the regions with relatively low forecast values need special attention, because these regions generally have relatively high population densities but may also experience strong earthquakes.
The island of Sulawesi, Indonesia, is located in a complex and tectonically active region, and has experienced tsunamis in the past. One of the major earthquake and tsunami events was the 23 February 1969 event that struck the Majene region in western Sulawesi Island. Interpretation of the historical accounts revealed that the Mw 7.0 earthquake generated strong intensity up to VIII on the Modified Mercalli Intensity scale. The earthquake was followed by an unusually high tsunami of 4 m that rapidly decayed within 25 km from the highest observation site. Hypocentre and earthquake mechanism analyses confirmed that it was an inland earthquake with a thrust mechanism. Ground motion modelling is able to reproduce the earthquake intensity but earthquake scenarios are unable to reconstruct the tsunami observations. A plausible solution to explain the tsunami report is from a combined scenario of an earthquake and a submarine mass failure of 0.5 km(3).
In this paper, the data of electron density, electron temperature and ion compositions detected by the China seismo-electromagnetic satellite (CSES) before Yangbi Ms6.4 and Maduo Ms7.4 earthquakes in China during 21-22 May 2021 are analyzed by using the algorithms of moving average to get the high frequency perturbations, revisited orbit comparison to construct the normal background, and wavelet transform to obtain the spectrum characteristics. Most of the parameters we studied were characterized by synchronous changes and similar frequencies, and even have symmetrical structures in the seismogenic zone, suggesting that they may originate from the same disturbing source. The research results also demonstrated that the electron density and electron temperature forms changed from relatively stable to unstable about 40 days before the earthquakes, and then gradually recovered after the earthquakes. Meanwhile, the disturbances are concentrated near the epicenter. As the earthquakes approach, the number of disturbances gradually becomes more frequent. Based on those observational facts, we suggest that the Yangbi and Maduo earthquakes may have affected the ionosphere through the ionosphere and magnetosphere branch and thermal branch of the lithosphere atmosphere ionosphere coupling model mechanism.
Earthquake early warning (EEW) is a relatively new strategy for reducing disaster risk and increasing resilience to seismic hazard in urban settings. EEW systems provide real-time information about ongoing earthquakes, enabling individuals, communities, governments, businesses and others located at distance to take timely action to reduce the probability of harm or loss before the earthquake-induced ground shaking reaches them. Examples of potential losses mitigated by EEW systems include injuries and infrastructure downtime. These systems are currently operating in nine countries, and are being/have been tested for implementation in 13 more. This paper reviews state-of-the-art approaches to EEW around the world. We specifically focus on the various algorithms that have been developed for the rapid calculation of seismic-source parameters, ground shaking, and potential consequences in the wake of an event. We also discuss limitations of the existing applied methodologies, with a particular emphasis on the lack of engineering-related (i.e., risk and resilience) metrics currently used to support decision-making related to the triggering of alerts by various end users. Finally, we provide a number of suggestions for future end-user-orientated advances in the field of EEW. For example, we propose that next-generation EEW systems should incorporate engineering-based, application-specific models/tools for more effective risk communication. They should operate within robust probabilistic frameworks that explicitly quantify uncertainties at each stage of the analysis, for more informed stakeholder decision-making. These types of advancements in EEW systems would represent an important paradigm shift in current approaches to issuing early warnings for natural hazards.
A strong earthquake occurred on November 12, 2017, in Sarpol-e Zahab city, western Iran, with the moment magnitude (Mw) of 7.3 and a focal depth of 18 km. The maximum horizontal peak ground acceleration of 0.69 g was recorded at the Sarpol-e Zahab station. Significant damages were observed in frame and masonry buildings, while the damage distribution was non-uniform throughout this small city. The preliminary site reconnaissance revealed that numerous engineering structures collapsed or considerably damaged in some regions, contrary with those non-structural masonry buildings in other regions which remained intact during earthquake. This paper represents a preliminary reconnaissance report prepared through the site visit done by the authors, a few days following the earthquake occurrence. Then, the data recorded by the strong ground motion stations in the affected city and the surrounding regions together with the geotechnical data gathered from the available boreholes in Sarpol-e Zahab are incorporated for probabilistic seismic hazard and local site effect analyses. The observed response spectra at two stations and distance-dependency of ground acceleration are compared with those predicted by some attenuation models. The results of probabilistic seismic hazard analysis in the return periods of 475 and 2475 years are compared with the observed ground response and the design spectra recommended by the Iranian seismic code (for site classes Types I and II). Several geotechnical boreholes from the previous works in the affected area were analyzed through the equivalent-linear site response approach in order to obtain the seismic response at the soil surface. The results are then compared with the code design spectra for the site classes of Types III and IV. It is demonstrated that the calculated response spectra are generally larger than those recommended by the Iranian seismic code, especially for the 4-7 stories buildings.
This study aims to explain the records of seismicity before the onset of the 2018 Mw 7.5 Palu earthquake, concerning the timing of earthquake nucleation of a large strike-slip supershear earthquake. The mainshock was preceded by two distinct series of foreshock sequences, seven months before the mainshock and three hours before the mainshock. The foreshock seismicity took place on a distinguishing isolated zone surrounding the epicenter of the impending mainshock, near the northern edge of the total rupture. Cross-correlating the regional seismogram indicates that the foreshocks were not repeated ruptures of the same patch by fault creep. Neither low-frequency signals nor an extended initiation phase were observed immediately before the impending rupture. The foreshocks were attributed to a cascade model, that is, the Palu mainshock was triggered by a cascade of foreshocks, not by a slow-slip transient. This is explained by the Coulomb stress changes model imparted by the largest foreshock (Mw 6.1). However, it is also possible that the mainshock initial break was instantaneously triggered by the dynamic seismic wave of the very last foreshock.
America seems to have an earthquake investment gap, paying billions more annually on average to recover from earthquakes than it invests to prevent losses beforehand. Two large studies for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the US Geological Survey (USGS) offer insight into how well American buildings will resist future catastrophic earthquakes. They suggest that the public prefers new buildings to do more than to assure life safety, which has been the building code's historic objective. They also suggest that greater resilience would better serve society's economic interests. People expect to be safe in new buildings and the building code delivers safety. But people also want to use buildings after the Big One. America has a few options for meeting those expectations, including stronger, stiffer construction, with geographically optimized strength and stiffness. Greater strength and stiffness is not the only option to improve resilience, but such an approach offers the advantages that it could be implemented in practice by any structural designer without requiring additional technical expertise, software, of proprietary technology. It would produce a healthier economy and save society an average of $4 for every $1 of added cost. The savings cross property lines, benefiting tenants, owners, lenders, developers, and everyone who does business with them. The added cost would amount to approximately 1%, and experience in Moore, Oklahoma, shows that it would probably affect real estate sales and prices little or not at all. The solution addresses ethical considerations by responding to the public's expectations for better performance and by optimizing utilitarian outcomes. Other options such as second-generation performance-based earthquake engineering, innovative technologies, and rating systems could complement this approach and further increase resilience.
Strong-motions from 79 moderate magnitude (5.9 >= Mw) earthquakes that caused various degrees of impact on humans and built-environment in Japan between 1996 and 2019, after the start of K-NET and KiK-net, are presented. As such, most of the earthquakes occurred beneath the land, and agencies had reported damages from events as small as Mw 4.1. Together, large peak ground accelerations exceeding 500 cm/s(2) were recorded during 15 earthquakes, reaching approximately 1128 cm/s(2) during one event. Similarly, large peak ground velocities exceeding 30 cm/s were recorded during ten earthquakes, reaching about 76 cm/s to the maximum. Most of the large values aforementioned were recorded within a hypocentral distance of approximately 30 km and on soil site conditions. Intermediate to long-period ground motions are of growing concerns in urban areas located on sedimentary basins with mid-rise and high-rise buildings. The threshold magnitude for the large ground motions at the periods of about 2-5 s is not well understood. In March 2013, the Japan Meteorological Agency introduced four levels of long-period ground motion intensity (LPGMI) based on absolute velocity response spectra (AVRS) between 1.6 and 7.8 s. In the present data set, LPGMI of level 3 (AVRS 50-100 cm/s) and level 4 (AVRS >100 cm/s) were observed each at a single site from shallow-focus earthquakes of Mw 5.8 and 5.9 at distances of approximately 12 and 15 km, respectively. However, the peak response periods were relatively short (1.6-1.8 s). The data showed that LPGM from moderate earthquakes is of lower concern regarding earthquake early warning at distances beyond 200 km. The 2018 Mw 5.5 North Osaka earthquake, despite the moderate magnitude, caused the loss of six human lives and brought significant damage to buildings and lifelines. Comparing the data with the ground motion prediction equations (GMPEs) and other events suggested that the North Osaka earthquake was probably a higher stress drop event. These moderate earthquakes' observations hinted that the commonly used GMPEs in Japan may not sufficiently grasp these earthquakes' hazards.
Scientific evidence suggests earthquakes occurring in Oklahoma since 2009 are not acts of God, but very likely triggered by wastewater injection in disposal wells by oil and gas (O&G) companies. While sustaining the O&G industry's contribution to the economy is generally important, achieving environmental and public protection may in part rely on how earthquake inducers are held liable for damage. We use a Bayesian Tobit censored model, estimated using Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods to determine factors that influence public preferences for how much liability O&G companies should assume for induced earthquake-related damage. Data are from a survey of Oklahomans collected in 2017 by Survey Sampling International (SSI). Results suggest people would, on average, hold O&G companies liable for 75% of the earthquake damage. We find socio-demographic, earthquake, locational, and O&G industry-related factors as the main drivers of earthquake damage liability. However, their effects on damage liability vary between respondents that have had their property damaged by earthquakes and those that in some way benefit from O&G companies through jobs and gas-leases. We provide insights by which individuals might lobby representatives to impose new liability or regulatory mechanisms on O&G companies to avoid or compensate for earthquake damage.
Background Maternal exposure to major stressors during pregnancy has been found to increase the risk of neurodevelopmental, cognitive and psychiatric disorders in the offspring. However, the association between prenatal exposure to earthquake and the risk of adult schizophrenia has yet to be examined. Aims To explore the potential long-term effects of prenatal exposure to maternal stress on the risk of schizophrenia in adulthood, using the Great Tangshan Earthquake in 1976 as a natural experiment. Method We obtained data from the Second China National Sample Survey on Disability, and analysed 94 410 Chinese individuals born between 1975 and 1979. We obtained difference-in-differences estimates of the earthquake effects on schizophrenia by exploiting temporal variation in the timing of earthquake exposure across four birth cohorts born between 1975 and 1979, along with geographical variation in earthquake severity at the prefecture level. Schizophrenia was ascertained by psychiatrists using the ICD-10 classification. Earthquake severity was measured by seismic intensity. Results Earthquake cohort who experienced prenatal exposure to felt earthquake had higher risk of schizophrenia (odds ratio, 3.38; 95% CI 1.43-8.00) compared with the unexposed reference cohort. After specifying the timing of exposure by the trimester of pregnancy, prenatal exposure to felt earthquake during the first trimester of pregnancy increased the risk of adulthood schizophrenia significantly (odds ratio, 7.45; 95% CI 2.83-19.59). Conclusions Prenatal (particularly early pregnancy) exposure to maternal stress after a major disaster substantially affects the mental health of Chinese adults.
We constrain epicentroid locations, magnitudes and depths of moderate-magnitude earthquakes in the 2013-2014 Minab sequence using surface-wave cross-correlations, surface-wave spectra and teleseismic body-wave modelling. We estimate precise relative locations of 54 M-w >= 3.8 earthquakes using 48 409 teleseismic, intermediate-period Rayleigh and Love-wave cross-correlation measurements. To reduce significant regional biases in our relative locations, we shift the relative locations to align the M-w 6.2 main-shock centroid to a location derived from an independent InSAR fault model. Our relocations suggest that the events lie along a roughly east-west trend that is consistent with the faulting geometry in the GCMT catalogue. The results support previous studies that suggest the sequence consists of left-lateral strain release, but better defines the main-shock fault length and shows that most of the M-w >= 5.0 aftershocks occurred on one or two similarly oriented structures. We also show that aftershock activity migrated westwards along strike, away from the main shock, suggesting that Coulomb stress transfer played a role in the fault failure. We estimate the magnitudes of the relocated events using surface-wave cross-correlation amplitudes and find good agreement with the GCMT moment magnitudes for the larger events and underestimation of small-event size by catalogue M-S. In addition to clarifying details of the Minab sequence, the results demonstrate that even in tectonically complex regions, relative relocation using teleseismic surface waves greatly improves the precision of relative earthquake epicentroid locations and can facilitate detailed tectonic analyses of remote earthquake sequences.
The Mw7.5 Palu earthquake that occurred on September 28, 2018, in Indonesia caused much damage to the city of Palu. Preliminary investigations indicated that the Palu-Koro Fault (PKF) hosted this damaging event. We calculated the seismicity before and after the 1996 Minahasa Mw7.9 earthquake and found that the seismicity on the PKF was enhanced after this earthquake. The earlier earthquake added Coulomb stress changes (increment CFS) to the seismogenic fault plane. We calculated the increment CFS produced by the Palu earthquake on a specified received nodal plane; the results suggest that many aftershocks occurred in the region of increased increment CFS. This region was consistent with the region of increased seismicity. The increment CFS on neighbouring faults increased, and up to 55.282 bar of stress was observed on the PKF. Furthermore, we calculated the expected seismicity rate and found that it will require similar to 50 years to recover to its original level.
Megathrust ruptures and the ensuing postseismic deformation cause stress changes that may induce seismicity on upper plate crustal faults far from the coseismic rupture area. In this study, we analyze seismic swarms that occurred in the north Ecuador area of Esmeraldas, beginning two months after the 2016 M-w 7.8 Pedernales, Ecuador megathrust earthquake. The Esmeraldas region is 70 km from the Pedernales rupture area in a separate segment of the subduction zone. We characterize the Esmeraldas sequence, relocating the events using manual arrival time picks and a local a-priori 3D velocity model. The earthquake locations from the Esmeraldas sequence outline an upper plate fault or shear zone. The sequence contains one major swarm and several smaller swarms. Moment tensor solutions of several events include normal and strike-slip motion and non-double-couple components. During the main swarm, earthquake hypocenters increase in distance from the first event over time, at a rate of a few hundred meters per day, consistent with fluid diffusion. Events with similar waveforms occur within the sequence, and a transient is seen in time series of nearby GPS stations concurrent with the seismicity. The events with similar waveforms and the transient in GPS time series suggest that slow aseismic slip took place along a crustal normal fault during the sequence. Coulomb stress calculations show a positive Coulomb stress change in the Esmeraldas region, consistent with seismicity being triggered by the Pedernales mainshock and large aftershocks. The characteristics of the seismicity indicate that postseismic deformation involving fluid flow and slow slip activated upper plate faults in the Esmeraldas area. These findings suggest the need for further investigation into the seismic hazard potential of shallow upper plate faults and the potential for megathrust earthquakes to trigger slow-slip and shallow seismicity across separate segments of subduction zones. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
We investigate the origin of a long-lived earthquake cluster in the Fars arc of the Zagros Simply Folded Belt that is colocated with the major Shanul natural gas field. The cluster emerged in January 2019 and initially comprised small events of M-n similar to 3-4. It culminated on 9 June 2020 with a pair of M-w 5.4 and 5.7 earthquakes, which was followed by >100 aftershocks. We assess the spatiotemporal evolution of the earthquake sequence using multiple event hypocenter relocations, waveform inversions, and Sentinel-1 Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) measurements and models. We find that the early part of the sequence is spatially distinct from the 9 June 2020 earthquakes and their aftershocks. Moment tensors, centroid depths, and source parameter uncertainties of 15 of the largest (M-n >= 4.0) events show that the sequence is dominated by reverse faulting at shallow depths (mostly <= 4 km) within the sedimentary cover. InSAR modeling shows that the M-w 5.7 mainshock occurred at depths of 2-8 km with a rupture length and maximum slip of similar to 20 km and similar to 0.5 m, respectively. Our results suggest that the 2019-2020 Khalili earthquake sequence was likely influenced by operation of the Shanul field, though elevated natural seismicity in the Zagros makes the association difficult to prove. Understanding how to distinguish man-made from natural seismicity is helpful for hazard and risk assessment, notably in the Zagros, which is both seismically active and rich in oil and gas reserves. Plain Language Summary Earthquakes caused by human activities have been documented in a growing number of regions worldwide, but recognizing these events in areas of naturally elevated seismicity remains challenging. We investigate the origin of a long-lived earthquake cluster in the Fars arc of the Zagros Simply Folded Belt-one of the world's most seismically active mountain belts-that is colocated with a major natural gas field. The seismicity led to public concern and speculation that nearby natural gas extraction was responsible for the seismicity. We assess the spatiotemporal evolution of the earthquake sequence using satellite geodesy and seismology measurements and models. Our results support these being anthropogenic earthquakes, most probably related to operations in the gas field. We suggest that the exploitation of the reservoirs in Iran should be preceded by risk assessment studies and accompanied by the implementation of dedicated, sophisticated monitoring, which would allow seismicity to be detected early and tracked more closely.
Post-earthquake fires occur after earthquakes and have commonly been encountered throughout history. The fires are particularly deadly and threaten the stability of buildings as possible structural damages caused by seismic loading can be exacerbated by temperature loading. Moreover, damage to insulation during seismic events causes accelerated heating in portions of members experiencing large bending moments. A method is proposed for evaluating the stability and deflection of a semi-braced structural steel frame subjected to post-earthquake fire conditions. The proposed method adopts the interstorey drift concept and assumes that each member in the frame has three segments of differing temperatures, modelling the damage to insulation near moment connections and/or midspans of flexural members. The method is presented in the form of a deflection equation, which indicates the instability of the frame when the lateral stiffness in the denominator reaches zero. The proposed method is demonstrated via a numerical example, and the duration of fire until the given frame becomes unstable is computed, with the results validated via finite element analysis. The degrees of structural and insulation damage are also varied in parametric analyses, showing that the lateral stiffness and critical temperatures of a frame subjected to post-earthquake conditions can be severely reduced.
Fuzzy Expert System (FES) with application to earthquake prediction has been presented to reproduce the performance of a human expert in earthquake prediction using expert systems. This research aims to predict future earthquakes having a magnitude 5.5 or greater. Previous earthquake data from 2000 to 2019 have been collected for this purpose. Since the earthquake data for the specified region have been reported on different magnitude scales, suitable relationships were determined to obtain uniform data. The uniform data have been used to calculate seismicity indicators according to the guidelines provided by Gutenberg-Richter's scale for quantitative determination of earthquake features. The relationships among these seismic indicators have been used by the human expert to set the rule base of Fuzzy expert system. These rules have been mathematically validated and tested on instrumentally recorded earthquake data. The results obtained from the proposed FES presented 47 % accuracy in predicting future earthquakes that may occur in the 100 km radial area from 34.708 degrees N, 72.5478 degrees E.
Fatalities directly or indirectly attributed to New Zealand earthquakes in the time period 1840-2017 inclusive were identified and classified by context and cause of death. There have been at least 489 deaths primarily attributed to 21 New Zealand earthquakes with Modified Mercalli Intensities (MMIs) of VII or greater, and an additional 11 deaths resulting from secondary earthquake causes (e.g. relief efforts). Earthquake-related deaths were caused by building damage (431 deaths, 88%), ground damage (34 deaths, 7%), or other causes (24 deaths, 5%). Damage to at least 95 unreinforced masonry (URM) buildings resulted in 272 deaths, and damage to five reinforced concrete (RC) buildings resulted in 145 deaths. Daytime earthquakes were more deadly than nighttime earthquakes, and mortality rates showed a significant increase with MMI. Mortality rates were nearly evenly distributed between males and females, the median age of death was 38 years, and the elderly population (>80 years) had the highest mortality rate.
A framework of agent-based models for housing recovery is presented and used to investigate post-earthquake recovery in the City of Vancouver, Canada. Housing recovery is modeled for a portfolio of buildings, contrasting with the practice of assessing the reconstruction of buildings in isolation. Thus, the presented approach better captures the effect of competition for resources, infrastructure disruptions, and socioeconomic factors on recovery. The analyses include models for damage, inspection, financing, power infrastructure, and labor/materials for repairs. The presented approach is applied to simulate the recovery of 114,832 residential buildings in 22 neighborhoods in Vancouver. Results indicate that recovery after a strong earthquake will take more than three years. The density of old and rented buildings, and the income and immigration status of the homeowners are shown to be good predictors of the speed of recovery for a neighborhood. Mitigation measures are compared and it is shown that retrofitting the most physically vulnerable buildings or doubling the available workforce are effective at reducing housing recovery times. It is demonstrated that the equity in recovery between low and high socioeconomic status homeowners is improved if mitigation measures are implemented. The results presented in this article can inform disaster recovery plans and mitigation actions in Vancouver and similar communities.
The chapter introduces some of seismic prediction methods proposed in the last 50 years. Having in mind the physical and statistical limits in earthquake predictability, the earthquake prediction methods are impartially reported in this chapter.
Recent deployments of Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) system in Japan and some other earthquake-prone regions provide the vital warning signals prior to the arrival of destructive ground motions. The EEW system uses the different traveling speed of seismic P- and S-waves to achieve the goal of earthquake warning. This technology is primarily used to produce warning signals to alert the public to avoid potential risks, such as to evacuate from buildings. It is also used to mitigate other risks such as reducing train speed of Shinkansen trains. The present study suggests a new seismic-risk mitigation technique by connecting a base isolation system with the EEW. Base isolation is a mature technology which decouples structure from its base and lengthens its natural period of vibration. However, existing base isolation devices must possess certain lateral resistance to withstand service lateral forces such as wind, and such stiffness hinders the effectiveness of vibration isolation. In addition, supplementary damping devices are sometimes added to control excessive displacements in isolation level. This paper proposes a smart system which changes the property of a base isolation system upon EEW signal. In normal times when earthquake risk is not present, the base isolation system is locked by shear keys. When an earthquake is signalled by the EEW system, a mechanical system releases the base isolation system. When the earthquake ceases, the system resets and base isolation is locked again. On-board vibration sensors are added to activate the system in case of EEW fails to detect incoming waves. A crucial benefit of the system is that supplementary damper is no longer required to control excessive isolator displacements, and elastic stiffness of base isolation is no longer required to re-enter the base isolation system. The result is that it maximizes the vibration isolation effectiveness. A conceptual framework of proposed system is described and demonstrated by laboratory-scaled experiments. A 6-storey test frame is excited on a shake table subjected to historical earthquakes. Results indicates that the proposed system is effective in reducing earthquake responses on the building. It is an IoT-enabled earthquake-risk mitigation system.
The seismotectonic position of the strong earthquake that occurred in the southern part of Sakhalin Island on September 13, 2020, is considered. The maximum shaking intensity was reported in the town of Uglegorsk. The ground shaking with Community Internet Intensity CII = 5.5 caused damage to the buildings with low seismic capacity. Significant ground shaking in the study area had already taken place in the case of the Mw 6.8 Uglegorsk earthquake in 2000. It has been suggested that the recent earthquake was triggered by the 2000 Uglegorsk earthquake (Mw 6.8). Currently, Sakhalin oblast is considered as a pilot region for the implementation of a novel federal program for the relocation of people from dilapidated housing. In this respect, the proposed method of assessment of the seismic potential of fault zones in the areas where construction is planned, taking into account the postseismic effects, is of very high importance.
July 4-6, 2019, located near Ridgecrest, Southern California, USA, a series of earthquakes occurred in less than two days, including the strong earthquakes M(w)6. 4 and M(w)7. 1. Two days after the earthquakes, the field geological survey and measurement of the surface ruptures in the epicenter area were carried out. Two fracture zones in 50 km length in NW direction and 10 km length in NE direction have been discovered after a series of Ridgecrest earthquakes. According to the field investigation, the dextral strike slip of surface ruptures in NW direction is produced by the Mw7. 1 earthquake, while the sinistral strike slip of surface ruptures in NE direction is produced by the M(w)6. 4 earthquake. Combining with statistical analysis of earthquake sequence, it's found that NW is the main direction fracture zones of this earthquake sequence and most of the earthquake energy is released. Based on the analysis of time series of earthquakes and dense strip distribution of earthquake sequences, it can be inferred that the earthquake is a group of complex conjugate earthquakes caused by the rupture of two conjugate faults in NE and NW directions. It also can be speculated that the 1\4(w)6. 4 earthquake is the strong foreshock, which promotes the occurrence of M(w)7. 1 earthquake.
Optical imagery has been proven to be an effective tool for measuring earthquake deformation in continental regions since its first application in the 1999 Izmit earthquake. In this article, we compile and analyze all the earthquakes that have been investigated with optical image matching by 2019, based on which we comment on various issues regarding measuring earthquake deformation with optical imagery. New generations of very high-resolution (VHR) data are effective for earthquake studies, but orthorectification of the VHR images is the major source of error, which is often ignored. We found that the displacements derived from the WorldView images strongly correlate with the errors in the Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM) digital elevation model (DEM) that was used in orthorectification. Based on the observed correlation between displacements and topography, we propose a new DEM-based method using the Advanced Land Observing Satellite (ALOS) World 3-D DEM to reduce the orthorectification errors. Combining the published optical data of earthquake deformation, we re-analyze the coseismic slip distribution and shallow slip deficit (SSD). The SSD model states that the coseismic slip in many strike-slip earthquakes decreases in magnitude toward the surface, but this model remains arguable because the interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR)-derived slip is usually not well-constrained at shallow depths due to decorrelation. Because optical matching directly measures the surface slip, we re-examine the slip distribution of 11 strike-slip earthquakes and find that the SSD model may primarily be artifacts in the InSAR measurements. It is therefore of great importance to include the optical data in earthquake studies to constrain coseismic slip inversions.
Total Electron Content (TEC) perturbations observed for event happened on 15th January 2014 in Indonesia with the magnitude of M similar to 4.5 on Richter scale are investigated. The earthquake occurred at 9:26 h Greenwich Mean Time (GMT). Yule-Walker, Covariance, Modified Covariance and Burg parametric methods are used to find out the change in the spectrum of signals with and without disturbances in the signal. From the analysis, it is observed that ionosphere was disturbed thrice due to the impending earthquake resulting in upraise of energy in the ionosphere at 10:13 h LTC, 10:40 h LTC and finally at 10:52 h LTC, which is coinciding with that of the earthquake occurrence. These studies in future may help in developing early-warning systems for earthquakes.
The rupture behavior of large-scale thrust faults has become an increasingly important topic in active tectonic and seismic studies. This is especially true for the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake (Mw 7.9), which occurred along the Longmenshan thrust fault (LMS) in China. While this earthquake has been the subject of many studies to date, paleoseismic studies along the LMS are still lacking. In this study, results from trenching at the town of Bailu, as well as radiocarbon and Optical-Stimulated Luminescence dating, are used to constrain the timing of the penultimate and earlier events, respectively: 3.3 0.6 to 4.4 0.6 ka and 4.8 0.6 to 5.8 0.8 ka. Further, coseismic displacement produced by the two events is similar to that produced by the 2008 event. The results suggest that fault segments along the Yingxiu-Beichuan and Jiangyou-Guanxian faults likely ruptured coseismically with similar offsets and that the northern segment of the LMS possesses independent rupture behavior. The magnitude of the penultimate seismic event was likely lower than that of the 2008 event, which indicates a characteristic slip-rupture pattern along the LMS.
The EUREF Permanent GNSS Network (EPN) provides the users with data and products such as station coordinate time series. These are subject to possible discontinuities and trend changes, being earthquake events one of the possible natural causes for these variations. We present here a fully automated tool for the analysis of the coordinate time series of EPN stations located in the desired neighbourhood of an earthquake epicentre. The tool is made freely available to the public and applied here to two significant earthquake events occurred in Europe in recent years, where several trend changes and jumps are revealed.
Activities related to oil and gas production, especially deep disposal of wastewater, have led to sequences of induced earthquakes in the central United States. This study aims to quantify damage to and seismic losses for light-frame wood buildings when subjected to sequences of induced, small to moderate magnitude, events. To conduct this investigation, one- and two-story multifamily wood frame buildings are designed, and their seismic response dynamically simulated using three-dimensional nonlinear models, subjected to ground motion sequences recorded in induced events. Damage is quantified through seismic losses, which are estimated using the FEMA P-58 methodology. Results show that at levels of shaking experienced in recent earthquakes, minor damage, consisting of cracking of interior finishes and nonstructural damage to plumbing and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems, is expected, which is consistent with observed damage in these events. The study also examines how expected losses and building fragility will accumulate and/or change over a sequence of earthquakes. Results indicate that damage quantified in terms of absorbed hysteretic energy tended to accumulate over the sequences; this damage corresponds to elongation or widening of cracks. However, fragility is not significantly altered by damage in a preceding event, meaning structures are not becoming more vulnerable due to existing damage. In addition, sequences of events do not change losses if the building is only repaired once at the end of the sequence, as the worsening of damage does not alter repair actions. If repairs are conducted after each event, though, total seismic losses can increase greatly from the sequence.
Satellite remote sensing data has the advantages of wide coverage, short imaging cycle, and nocturnal imaging. It has important applications in earthquake disaster monitoring. The built up remote sensing satellite receiving station of our lab could collect the MODIS, NOAA, FY3 Series data. In this paper, we developed a geometric correction algorithm based on conjugate triangles and affine transformation for remote sensing satellite data in the first, and then produce land surface temperature (LST), Vegetation Index (NDVI), and aerosol products for seismic disaster monitoring. In the future work, the products will be applied for earthquake disaster monitoring.
In this study, a grid that consists of inductor-capacitor-memristor circuits has been developed to simulate earthquake propagation. The main advantage of the memristor device is its ability to remember its last state even when no voltage is applied to it. Due to this feature, the use of the memristor is favored in the proposed inductor-capacitor-memristor (LCM) circuit. The inductors and capacitors emulate the oscillation of the rocks, whereas the memristors engage the circuit's energy loss and act as the memory that the data affecting the earthquake propagation process is stored. In the context of this study, the proposed circuit model is designed on the LTspice platform. Furthermore, it is tested and validated with real seismic data. Preliminary results are quite encouraging regarding the response of the proposed model.
Stress drop has important predictive value for ground motion intensity when determined reliably. Published measurements of stress drop, however, are strongly variable, even for well-studied earthquake populations. Much of that variability arises from uncertainty in the corner frequency. In this study, we use a spectral ratio method to estimate stress drop and focus on assessing the fit to the data to understand trade-offs among the parameters of the spectral model. We consider empirical Green's function events located within a 2-km radius for events in the magnitude range 4.5 >= M-W >= 4 near Cushing, Oklahoma, using an accurately relocated earthquake catalog from May 2013 to November 2016. We form composite S coda wave spectral ratios between mainshock-eGf pairs of events. We fit the Brune spectral model to the data over the frequency range from 0.5 to 30 Hz. To examine the characteristics of the spectral ratios, we evaluate the trade-off among three estimated parameters-two corner frequencies and the moment ratio-from 1,000 bootstrap resamples of the data. We discard event pairs with a large trade-off between any two parameters and assess the distribution of the residuals to test the suitability of candidate eGf events. Through these processes, we reduce the standard deviation of earthquake stress drop estimates. The stress drop estimates after the selection are similar to those of natural earthquakes in the central USA. We conclude that careful eGf event selection has the potential to increase substantially the accuracy of stress drop estimates derived from spectral ratios.
After a natural disaster like an earthquake about 15% of the population experience a post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). However, even those without a diagnosis of PTSD can suffer from disorders of the affective sphere, including anxiety, depression and alteration of emotion recognition. The objective of this study was to investigate the neuropsychological and emotional profile of students living in the earthquake-affected areas of L'Aquila, Italy. A group of students living in L'Aquila at the time of the 2009 earthquake was recruited, and compared to a control group of students not living in any earthquake-affected areas. Participants were assessed by means of the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) scale, the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), the Intolerance of Uncertainty Scale Short Form, the Uncertainty Response Scale (URS), the Anxiety Sensitivity Index 3 (ASI-3), and the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire-Revised Short Form (EPQ-RS). Participants also took part in two behavioral experiments aimed at evaluating their ability to recognize facial expressions (by means of the Ekman and Friesen Pictures of Facial Affect) and to evaluate emotionally evocative scenes (by means of the International Affective Picture System (IAPS)). Results showed that students living in the earthquake-affected areas had a general increase of anxiety and anticipation of threats. Moreover, students living in the earthquake-affected areas showed a significantly higher overall accuracy in recognizing facial expressions as compared to controls. No significant differences between the two groups were detected in the evaluation of emotionally evocative scenes. The novel result lies in the greater accuracy of earthquake victims in recognizing facial expressions, despite the lack of differences from controls in evaluating affective evocative scenes. The trauma exposure may have increased vigilance for threats in earthquake victims, leading them to systematically pay attention to potential signs of approaching threats, such as emotional facial expressions, thus progressively developing particular emotional expertise.
This essay reads Felipe Guaman Poma de Ayala's El primer nueva coronica y buen gobierno (1615) as a meditation on the all-devouring historical system produced by the colonial-global. The Quechua historian's particular adaptation of both Christian scriptural knowledge and the vexed early modern European tradition of natural and moral philosophy generates what I am calling an earthquake history: a figuration of colonial reality as a swallowing up by the earth, and a deployment of earthquake as a mode of interpretation that continually pushes against colonial knowledge. With his tremor-ridden text, Guaman Poma inaugurates a strand of earthquake thinking that also informs the contemporaneous Andean-born writer, El Inca Garcilaso de k Vega. Garcilaso too discerns in earthquake a kind of theoretical framework for ideas that will, in turn, shape the colonially embedded innovations of Daniel Defoe, whose new generic formation, the English novel, emerged with the rise of European global subjecthood in the eighteenth century. Reading across these disparate writers, the essay traces the broad contours of an earthquake history that Guaman Poma helps us to see, a history expressed differently by writers throughout the Americas, yet rooted in the ongoing and always uncertain nature of settler colonial time.
Proposed by Chinese scientists on the basis of a synthetic and progressive view of active tectonics, regional seismicity, present kinematics of the crust, and geophysical investigations, the hypothesis that the strong earthquake activity in continental China is controlled by the movement and deformation of active tectonic blocks explains the spatial distribution of strong earthquakes. More specifically, this hypothesis predicts that future strong earthquakes will only occur at favorable locations within the block boundary zones. Through the recent two decades, as a basis for understanding the tectonic activity of continental China and the prediction of strong continental earthquakes, the theoretical framework of the active tectonic block hypothesis has been developed and improved. Moreover, a theoretical model of active tectonic blocks (version 1.0) was consequently constructed, contributing to the transformation from probabilistic prediction toward physical prediction. Earthquake prediction, especially the prediction of devastating earthquakes within continents, has been a most particularly scientific problem worldwide for a long period of time, enticing scientists to make great efforts in corresponding research and thus produce various prediction models and theories. The practice of earthquake prediction as a whole is experiencing transformation in four aspects: from empirical prediction to physical prediction, from deterministic and qualitative prediction to probabilistic and quantitative prediction, from single discipline-based prediction to multidiscipline-based prediction, and from prediction for warning to prediction for protection. The active tectonic block model version 1.0 assumes that strong continental earthquakes concentrate at the active tectonic block boundary zones, which has been evidenced by most of the strong earthquakes in continental China during the past in recent 20 years. As these events became observable in a more exact and detailed way, the content of the active tectonic block model version 1.0 was also enriched. However, many problems associated with the concepts of active block theory and the framework of the active tectonic block model still require solutions. It is well known that the strong earthquakes result from the cycle of progressive accumulation of strain, development of materials instability, and abrupt release of strain energy at particular portions of the active tectonic block boundary zones. Therefore, achieving a breakthrough in earthquake prediction relies on the complete understanding of the physical processes of the entire earthquake cycle. To achieve such a breakthrough, a new version of the theoretical model of active tectonic blocks (version 2.0) developed by improving the existing theories and models is expected. The improvements will focus on the tectonic activity and contemporary deformation of faults within active tectonic block boundary zones, the correlation between near-surface tectonics and deep structures, the dynamic background of the development and occurrence of strong earthquakes, and the physics of the earthquake source. To the aforementioned improvements, this paper suggests various scientific work, including carrying out synthetic research based on multiple methods, developing and improving the theoretical system of the active tectonic block hypothesis, developing dynamic models of strong earthquakes in active block boundary zones with a physical basis, performing research on the mechanics and prediction of strong earthquakes within active tectonic block boundary zones, and eventually establishing and developing testable models of physical prediction of strong earthquakes.
Indonesia lies at the region where Indo-Australian, Eurasian, Pacific and Philippines global tectonic plates meet. In the last 30 years, Indonesia has experienced catastrophic earthquake disasters, causing thousands of loss of life and major infrastructure damage. Since the 2004 devastating Sumatra-Andaman tsunamigenic earthquake, knowledge derived from various disaster experiences regarding infrastructure resilience have been improving. Yet disasters such as the recent 2018 Lombok and Palu earthquakes remain devastating. An investigation on how knowledge on past earthquakes have been managed and utilized to promote better resilient infrastructure in Indonesia is conducted. Lessons are extracted from 5 significant earthquakes causing major damage through compilation and analysis of scientific publications and reports on field surveys, works and existing policies. Factors that keep contributing to the failure of buildings and infrastructure include lack of understanding of local hazard situation, incompliance to seismic resistant codes and standards for buildings and infrastructure, problematic soil condition, and collateral hazards such as tsunami, liquefaction, ground subsidence, landslides, rock avalanche which are adding to the complexity of the seismic hazard. The scarcity of information and knowledge on the performance on resilience of infrastructure during earthquakes in Indonesia limits knowledge-based decision making in the planning, development and operation of resilient infrastructure. This study calls for the development of a knowledge management system for earthquake resilient infrastructure in Indonesia, to save more lives and to reduce economic disruptions due to infrastructure damages, and thus contribute to the sustainable development goals achievement.
It is necessary to develop a multidisciplinary approach in the sense of creating earthquake sensitive urban areas, though the decisions made by the urban planners are considered as prior. In its basis, urban planning process begins with the geological and geotechnical etudes and continues with planning and land use decision-making within the context of implementation plans. Then, design and construction processes follow those stages. In the period of whole procedure; urban planners, geological engineers, designers, architects, civil engineers and the other related professionals should be included in order to take a common approach. The contributions and the tasks of those disciplines to create earthquake resistant cities vary. In this study, a systematical theoretic perspective in the context of creating earthquake sensitive cities in a multidisciplinary way will be developed. Within this scope, the deficiencies and the necessity of the multidisciplinary collaboration in the implementation sense will be discussed.
An M(s)6. 3 earthquake occurred at Medog County, Nyingchi City, Tibet at Beijing time 04 :15 on 24 April 2019. This earthquake is located in the northeast corner of the Himalaya orogenic belt where the Indian plate underthrusts beneath the Eurasian plate. Based on the waveforms recorded by the local broadband seismic stations we deployed at the eastern Himalaya syntaxis, and the waveform and traveltime data obtained from Chinese and international seismic networks, we determined the earthquake location, focal mechanism and rupture process. The resulting epicenter of this earthquake is (94. 56+0. 01 degrees E, 28. 41+0. 01 degrees N) and the focal depth is 13.3 +/- 1. 6 km below the surface (or 11. 5 +/- 1. 6 km beneath the sea level). The focal mechanism solution strike/dip/slip is 202 degrees/17 degrees/20 degrees. The large rupture is mainly concentrated about 5 km to the NNE of the initial rupture area. Combined with other previous geophysical and geological studies, we infer that the earthquake occurred at the rapid turning area where the Main Himalayan thrust suddenly rotated nearly 90 degrees. The major tectonic feature for this area is the west-dipping subduction and northward thrust of the Sang syntaxis with respect to the Namche Barwa syntaxis.
The November 23rd, 1980 Irpinia-Basilicata (Southern Italy) earthquake is one of the strongest earthquakes ever occurred in Italy. The earthquake was a natural laboratory for the scientific community, which was engaged highly and promptly in investigating the event, thus publishing a flood of papers in different research areas over time. Just these research outputs are the focus of the article, which examines, with a tailored methodological approach, the international and national (Italian) studies started and advanced since the occurrence of the earthquake. First, we built and analyzed statistically two bibliographic databanks regarding the earthquake studies: (a) the international version of IRpinia Bibliographic databASE (IR_BASE_ENG), selecting and standardizing the pertinent scientific documents extracted from Scopus, Web of Science, and other databases and (b) the national version of the database (IR_BASE_IT) using the Google Scholar search engine to search for the most relevant papers in Italian. Second, IR_BASE_ENG was analyzed in a bibliometric perspective through the data mining VOSviewer software (Waltman et al., 2010) that builds co-occurrence term maps useful in perspective of investigating the wide-ranging studies on the earthquake. Third, taking a cue from this network analysis, we recognized the main research topics and performed a minireview of the related international studies, integrating in it a quick reference to the literature in Italian. Finally, we associated the scientific outputs to each cluster/topic, also performing the frequency analysis of the published documents for each subject, thus gaining information on the temporal trends of studies and getting a more exhaustive evidence of the scientific landscape on the earthquake over the last 40 years.
Earthquakes trigger other earthquakes and build up clusters in space and time that in turn create a bias in seismic catalogues. Therefore, declustering is considered as a prerequisite in seismic studies, particularly for probabilistic seismic hazard analysis, not only to eliminate the bias but also to decouple mainshocks and triggered events. However, a declustering process is not a straightforward task due to the complex nature of earthquake phenomena. There exist several declustering methods that mostly employ subjective rules to distinguish between background seismicity and offsprings. Eventually, the final declustered catalogues usually deviate significantly according to the employed method. This issue is raising some concerns, such as how to select the most suitable declustering algorithm, or to assess how this selection affects seismic hazard assessment. In consequence, the main goal of this paper is to quantify the sensitivity of seismic hazard assessments to different declustering techniques. Accordingly, the recently compiled Turkish earthquake catalogue was declustered by making use of three declustering algorithms. A total of six declustered catalogues, two catalogues per method, one by implementing the default input parameters, and one by altering the free input parameters of the employed methods, were produced. The clusters of selected earthquakes were studied in terms of the spatial-temporal distribution of earthquake sequences. A sensitivity analysis was conducted through the major steps of seismic hazard assessment for Istanbul metropolitan city. The seismicity of Istanbul and surroundings was modeled on the basis of four areal source zones. Comparative studies showed that, while the selected declustering algorithm did not significantly affect the completeness periods of moderate to large size earthquakes, it considerably altered those of small magnitude events (e.g. M-w 4.3-5.2) and consequently the recurrence parameters of the source zones. Depending on the declustering algorithm and input parameters, the activity rate was observed to vary up to a factor of two. The differences in the declustered catalogues obtained from different declustering approaches resulted in considerable variations in seismic hazard estimations. The hazard maps at return periods of 475 and 2475 years indicated that peak ground acceleration values may vary up to 20% at some locations. Moreover, the differences in 5% damped elastic spectral accelerations at T = 0.2 for the return periods of 475 and 2475 years are about 18 and 12%, respectively, on the southern shores of Istanbul where the highest hazard levels are observed.
Total electron content (TEC) precursors of the Chi-Chi Earthquake, which occurred in Taiwan at 01:47:15 on September 21, 1999 (Taiwan Standard Time, TST), with its epicenter at 23.85 degrees N and 120.82 degrees E, a Richter magnitude (ML) of 7.3 (a moment magnitude (Mw) of 7.6), and a focal depth of 8.00 km, were detected 1, 3, and 4 days before the earthquake using two back-propagation neural network (BPNN) models. These results are consistent with the analysis results of Liu et al. (2001) and Lin (2010). Another TEC precursor was detected on May 13, 2003 (TST), 2 days before the earthquake on May 15, 2003 (TST), with an ML of 5.21. Their precursors might be induced by the variations of the geomagnetic and electric fields near their hypocenter. The two BPNN models were to be verified for stability and reliability after performing cross-validation and evaluating the variance in the learning process. For this, the result of the analyzed method can serve as a real-time TEC predicted system for giving any future time as inputs of the two BPNN models. Hence, an earthquake early warning (EEW) system is performable.
Tsunami damage on buildings in regions subjected to shaking is commonly modeled disregarding the occurrence of a previous earthquake and damages that have already occurred at those buildings. In Portugal, there are studies for the regions of Lisboa, Setubal and Algarve that access damages or vulnerability of buildings due to the action of tsunami waves. Even so, they never took into account that, if near to the epicenter, usually prior to the tsunami, there was an earthquake shaking capable of provoking some level of damages to the building stock in the affected area. In this paper, we propose a way of combining earthquake shaking damages with tsunami damages - the aggregated damage. This is defined as an additive function. The aggregated damage of a building is the sum of damages caused by the earthquake plus those caused by the tsunami. As for earthquake shaking damage assessment, we use a home-developed software model based on standard vulnerability indexes conveying fragility curves for 5 different damage states (DSi), for reinforced concrete and other building typologies (only masonry is considered in the present case). The tsunami fragility curves corresponding to similar DSi, were obtained from recent published literature where the main variable was the water maximum height reaching each building which was estimated using a Geographic Information System (GIS) approach.
Behavioral sequence analysis (BSA) gives insights to understand and model individual behaviors. The present study uses BSA for a virtual earthquake. The virtual earthquake drill was facilitated by a head-mounted display (HMD)-based immersive virtual reality (IVR) system. Eighty-three participants experienced a full earthquake and post-earthquake evacuation in a virtual hospital building. Concurrent verbal protocol analysis (VPA) and retrospective video analysis of the footage of participants' in-IVR behaviors have been conducted to identify the behavioral sequence of participants. As a result, behavioral transition diagrams are generated, showing the progression of behaviors exhibited in the virtual earthquake drill. A variety of behavioral paths for each individual participant is presented using a visual analytics approach. The behavioral transition diagrams and behavioral paths expose the full picture of human behaviors in an earthquake emergency, which are vital to developing behavior-oriented strategies for earthquake emergencies.
We study the effects of pore fluid pressure (P-f) on the pre-earthquake, near-fault stress state, and 3-D earthquake rupture dynamics through six scenarios utilizing a structural model based on the 2004 M-w 9.1 Sumatra-Andaman earthquake. As pre-earthquake P-f magnitude increases, effective normal stress and fault shear strength decrease. As a result, magnitude, slip, peak slip rate, stress drop, and rupture velocity of the scenario earthquakes decrease. Comparison of results with observations of the 2004 earthquake support that pre-earthquake P-f averages near 97% of lithostatic pressure, leading to pre-earthquake average shear and effective normal tractions of 4-5 and 22 MPa. The megathrust in these scenarios is weak, in terms of low mean shear traction at static failure and low dynamic friction coefficient during rupture. Apparent co-seismic principal stress rotations and absolute post-seismic stresses in these scenarios are consistent with the variety of observed aftershock focal mechanisms. In all scenarios, the mean apparent stress rotations are larger above than below the megathrust. Scenarios with larger P-f magnitudes exhibit lower mean apparent principal stress rotations. We further evaluate pre-earthquake P-f depth distribution. If P-f follows a sublithostatic gradient, pre-earthquake effective normal stress increases with depth. If P-f follows the lithostatic gradient exactly, then this normal stress is constant, shifting peak slip and peak slip rate updip. This renders constraints on near-trench strength and constitutive behavior crucial for mitigating hazard. These scenarios provide opportunity for future calibration with site-specific measurements to constrain dynamically plausible megathrust strength and P-f gradients.
In this paper we present a preliminary seismic hazard assessment for the proposed Bohai Strait subsea tunnel (BSST) based on scenario earthquakes in a strike-slip stress regime. We studied two scenarios: 1) a right lateral, strike-slip faulting earthquake event with surface wave magnitude (Ms) 7.4 occurred on the north to northeast (NNE) oriented Tan-Lu fault zone (TLFZ) with a location about 100 km away from BSST (the far field); and 2) a left-lateral strike-slip event with magnitude Ms4.1 occurred in the direct vicinity to BSST (the near field) on the northwest to west (NWW) Zhangjiakou-Penglai fault zone (Zhang-Peng Fault Zone, or ZPFZ). Selections of these two scenario events are based on the characterization of the actual seismotectonic settings and representation of earthquake history in the Bohai region. We studied the impacts of these two scenario events on BSST in terms of longitudinal compression, bending, and tunnel cross-section's ovaling deformation. As a preliminary study, we excluded the analysis of formation-structure interaction and focused on the ground motion parameters expressed as the maximum displacement, the peak ground velocity (PGV) and peak ground acceleration (PGA) of the free seismic wave field surrounding the tunnel walls. This simplification is acceptable for the fact that BSST is planned to be constructed in the granite bedrock formation in which the inertial contrast between the formation and the structure is minimal. Seismic hazard assessment for tunnels is completely different from the assessment for above-ground buildings. It is also substantially different from assessment for tunnels built in soil formations, for which the formation (soil) structure interaction evaluation is critical. We use semi-analytical approach for assessing the seismic impact of the far field, large event to BSST; whereas use the two-dimensional (2D) finite difference time domain (FDTD) numerical simulation technique for assessing the response of BSST to the seismic load of the near field, smaller event. The preliminary results suggest that 1) the impact of the low frequency, far field event has very subtle impact to BSST in terms of longitudinal compression, bending, and cross-section ovaling; and 2) the impact of the high-frequency, near field event has little impact to BSST in terms of longitudinal compression and bending; while has a measurable impact to cross-section ovaling. However, this kind of deformation is within the limit of tolerance under earthquake-resistant design. Over all, the seismic risk posed by regional large earthquakes and local small events to BSST is within allowable risk threshold and manageable with the enforcement of earthquake resistant code. (C) 2019 Published by Elsevier B.V.
PurposeThe paper illustrates how accountability of collaborative governance was constituted in the context of disaster managerial work carried out by the Government, local authorities, and Maori community organisations, after the 2010-2011 Canterbury earthquakes in New Zealand.Design/methodology/approachA case study detailing the communitarian approach to disaster recovery management by a nationalised Maori earthquake response network is contrasted with the formal emergency management infrastructure's response to the Canterbury earthquakes.FindingsCritical analysis of the effectiveness and failures of these approaches highlights the institutional and cultural political issues that hinder the institutionalization of collaborative and accountable governance in the fields of disaster risk reduction and emergency management.Research limitations/implicationsThe paper contributes to the accountability research and practice in general and disaster accountability in particular by addressing a more multifaceted model of 'accountability combined with collaborative governance' as a way to build on and critique some of the seemingly more narrow views of accountability.Originality/valueThe study presents rare insights on the interactions between formal and community level accountability and collaborative governance in the context of New Public Governance (NPG).
Snow avalanches can be triggered by strong earthquakes. Most existing models assume that snow slab avalanches happen simultaneously during or immediately after their triggering. Therefore, they cannot explain the plausibility of delayed avalanches that are released minutes to hours after a quake. This paper establishes the basic mechanism of delays in earthquake-induced avalanche release using a novel analytical model that yields dynamics consistent with three documented cases, including two from Western Himalaya and one from central Italy. The mechanism arises from the interplay between creep, strain softening and strain-rate sensitivity of snow, which drive the growth of a basal shear fracture. Our model demonstrates that earthquake-triggered delayed avalanches are rare, yet possible, and could lead to significant damage, especially in long milder slopes. The generality of the model formulation opens a new approach for exploring many other problems related to natural slab avalanche release.
Abnormal volcanic earthquakes occurring near the volcanic island of Torishima, south of Japan, sometimes generate relatively larger tsunamis compared to the seismic magnitudes. They have a non-double-couple focal mechanism known as compensated linear vector dipole. The unusual earthquake source mechanism poses difficulties in traditional tsunami forecasting method based on seismic parameters. Tsunami data assimilation, a method of tsunami forecast using offshore tsunami observation data and numerical model, avoids the complexities and uncertainties in the tsunami source estimation and makes a tsunami early warning at coastal points of interest. Along Nankai trough, many offshore bottom pressure gauges are installed, and the data are transmitted in real time through submarine cables. Previous synthetic experiments have demonstrated the capability of the data assimilation approach for tsunami forecasting. In this paper, we report the successful application of the tsunami data assimilation to the cabled ocean bottom pressure gauge data for the first time. We assimilated the tsunami data recorded on ocean bottom pressure gauges to retroactively forecast the tsunamis of the 2015 Torishima earthquake. Comparison of the forecasted and observed waveforms at two coastal tide gauges (Kushimoto and Tosashimizu) confirmed that our method could forecast the tsunami amplitude and arrival time accurately, merely based on offshore tsunami observations. We also investigated the relationship between the number of observational stations used for assimilation and the forecasting accuracy and determined which stations were more important in data assimilation.
The scalar 2-D Helmholtz equation (i.e. 'membrane waves') can be used to model surface-wave propagation in a laterally smooth, lossless half-space. Building on this known result, we develop an algorithm to localize earthquake sources based on surface-wave data, via numerical time reversal on a membrane, where monochromatic waves propagate with the phase velocity of Rayleigh or Love waves at the same frequency. By conducting monochromatic membrane-wave time-reversal simulations at various frequencies and combining the results, broad-band time-reversed surface waves can be modelled. Importantly, membrane-wave modelling is computationally much less expensive than 3-D surface-wave modelling. We first explain rigorously the relationship between surface waves and membrane waves. Our mathematical treatment is slightly different from those found in the literature, in that it does not invoke variational principles. We next implement our time-reversal algorithm via spectral elements as well as simple ray tracing. Both implementations account for the effects of lateral variations in phase velocity. We validate the two resulting tools by means of several numerical experiments. This includes synthetic tests, as well as the localization of a virtual source based on a data set of real ambient-noise cross-correlations, and the localization of the epicentre of a real earthquake from real, raw data. In this study, applications are limited to northern Italy and the Alpine arc, where we have access to recent, high-resolution phase velocity maps, ambient-noise cross-correlations and data from a recent, relatively large earthquake. The accuracy of epicentre location despite non-uniformity in station coverage encourages further applications of our method, in particular to the task of mapping large-earthquake rupture in space and time.
Repeating earthquake sequences have been actively investigated to clarify many aspects of earthquake physics. The two particularly well-studied sequences, known as the Los Angeles and San Francisco repeaters, have several intriguing observations, including their long (for the seismic moment) recurrence times that would suggest stress drops of 300 MPa based on typical assumptions, near-syncronized timing prior to 2004, and higher than typical inferred stress drops (of 25 to 65 MPa, up to 90 MPa locally), but not as high as the recurrence times suggest. Here we show that all these observations are self-consistent, in the sense that they can be reproduced in a single fault model. The suitable models build on the standard rate-and-state fault models, with velocity-weakening patches imbedded into a velocity-strengthening region, by adding either enhanced dynamic weakening during seismic slip or elevated normal stress on the patches, or both, to allow for the higher stress drops. Such models are able to match the observed average properties of the San Francisco and Los Angeles repeaters, as well as the overall nontrivial scaling between the recurrence time and seismic moment exhibited by many repeating sequences as a whole, for reasonable parameter choices based on experiments and theoretical studies. These models are characterized by the occurrence of substantial and variable aseismic slip at the locations of the repeating sources, which explains their atypical relation between recurrence interval and seismic moment, induces variability in the repeating source properties as observed, and results in their neither slip- nor time-predictable behavior.
Probabilistic statements can be a valuable tool for natural hazard risk communication, including forecasts. However, individuals often have a poor understanding of such probabilistic forecasts caused by them distorting their interpretations of event likelihoods towards the end of the time window and discounting the risk today. We investigated the use of an 'anchoring' time statement to mitigate this bias via an opportunistic survey run after the 2013 Cook Strait earthquakes, near Wellington, New Zealand. Participants rated their interpretations of likelihoods for an immediate aftershock forecast, and for an earthquake in the future. We explored the influence of aftershock and information concern, emotions and felt shaking, gender and education, as well as preparedness actions. The anchoring time window statement mitigated the skew in interpretations for the short (24 h to within 1 week) aftershock forecast statement. However, the skew still existed for the longer future earthquake forecast (7 days to within 1 year). We also found that heightened sensory experience (felt shaking) or emotional reactions (nervousness, fear, alertness) during the earthquakes was associated with an increase in the perceived likelihoods of future events. Gender was found to significantly influence results, with females rating higher levels of information concern and anxiety, and recording higher perceived likelihoods for the immediate aftershock forecast. Findings, including the importance of 'anchoring' time windows within a forecast to encourage immediate preparedness actions, support recommendations for effective crafting of these forecasts and warnings.
Objective: We conducted a systematic review to determine the prevalence and characteristics of earthquake-associated head injuries for better disaster preparedness and management. Methods: We searched for all publications related to head injuries and earthquakes from 1985 to 2018 in MEDLINE and other major databases. A search was conducted using earthquakes, wounds and injuries, and cranio-cerebral trauma as a medical subject headings. Results: Included in the analysis were 34 articles. With regard to the commonly occurring injuries, earthquake-related head injury ranks third among patients with earthquake-related injuries. The most common trauma is lower extremity (36.2%) followed by upper extremity (19.9%), head (16.6%), spine (13.1%), chest (11.3%), and abdomen (3.8%). The most common earthquake-related head injury was laceration or contusion (59.1%), while epidural hematoma was the most common among inpatients with intracranial hemorrhage (9.5%) followed by intracerebral hematoma (7.0%), and subdural hematoma (6.8%). Mortality rate was 5.6%. Conclusion: Head injuries were found to be a commonly occurring trauma along with extremity injuries. This knowledge is important for determining the demands for neurosurgery and for adequately managing patients, especially in resource-limited conditions.
The focus of this article is on the study and use of scriptotherapy in dealing with grief. An examination of Ndlovu's Invisible Earthquake is provided, noting the healing process of creative writing.
Last years the role of Unmanned Aerial Systems is increasing in a wide variety of scientific aspects that need fast and reliable geodata. Nowadays, the effectiveness of the quality and the resolution that the UAS provide in spatial data acquisition are fulfilling scientific standards. Thus, UAS have a prominent role in post-earthquake damage assessment as they are capable of collecting high in resolution data for mapping spatiotemporal phenomena. The implementation of very detailed 3D Geovisualization requires oblique photos of the building faces. Thus, the UAS's data acquisition of nadir photos solely, is limited as it lacks crucial information for buildings facades. In this work, a UAS multi-camera rig installation is presented for the collection and simultaneous acquisition of nadir and in three different directions oblique photos. The acquired data were used for the creation of post-earthquake building facade 3D geovisualisation of Vrisa village in Lesvos island after the Mw6.3 earthquake on June 12, 2017 at two different spatial scales. The results showed that the use of a multi-camera rig attached to UAS can produce 3D visualizations capable of depicting in detail the diversity and the small size of cracks in roofs or facades of the post-earthquake buildings. Thus, the produced geovisualizations are a valuable tool for measurements of area and volume of house debris. Moreover, the results proved that the installation of a multi-camera rig in a UAS for data acquisition and the creation of accurate 3D visualizations using these data could be a valuable and useful tool for post-earthquake damage assessment.
We consider the characteristics of seismicity before large earthquakes and the great earthquakes in the periphery of the Pacific Ocean. It is found that earthquakes with M-w = 7.0-9.2 that occurred in 1964-2016 were preceded by the formation of ring-shaped seismicity structures, usually in two depth ranges: 0-33 and 34-70 km. We obtain correlations between sizes of shallow (L) and deep (l) seismicity rings, threshold magnitudes (M-th1 and M-th2, respectively), and the time of their formation (T-1 and T-2, respectively) on magnitudes M-w of the mainshocks. It is shown that the sizes of ring-shaped structures at any given M-w for earthquakes in the western margin of the Pacific are significantly smaller than for those in the eastern margin. However, the values of M-th1 and M-th2 are close for these two regions. Parameters T-1 and T-2 vary considerably depending on the event, but on average they are 27-30 years. It is supposed that the formation of ring-shaped structures is related to the migration of deep-seated fluids, while the difference between characteristics of these structures in the western and eastern margins of the Pacific are caused by different contents of fluids in the crust and upper mantle of the respective regions. This conclusion agrees with the available data on the peculiarities of aftershock processes of large earthquakes in the considered regions.
Repeating earthquakes (repeaters) that rupture the same fault area (patch) are interpreted to be caused by repeated accumulation and release of stress on the seismic patch in a creeping area. This relationship between repeaters with fault creep can be exploited for tracking the fault creep (slow slip) based on the repeaters' activity. In other words, the repeaters can be used as creepmeters embedded on a fault. To do this, it is fundamentally important to select earthquakes that definitely re-rupture in the same area. The selections are usually done based on waveform similarity or hypocenter location. In hypocenter-location based detection, the precision of the relative location compared with the dimension of earthquake sources is critical for confirming the co-location of the source area. On the other hand, waveform-similarity-based detection needs to use appropriate parameters including high enough frequency components to distinguish neighboring sources. Inter-event timing (recurrence interval) and/or the duration of a sequence's activity are good diagnostic features for finding appropriate detection parameters and eliminating non-repeating events, which are important because an inappropriate selection leads to including triggered sequences that do not re-rupture the same area. Repeaters provide an independent estimation of creep from geodetic data and such estimations are mostly in good agreement when both kinds of data are available. Repeater data are especially useful in the deeper part of strike-slip faults and in near-trench areas of subduction zones where geodetic data's resolution is usually limited. The repeaters also have an advantage with geodetic data analysis because they are not contaminated by viscoelastic deformation or poroelastic rebound which are prominent postseismic process for large earthquakes and occur outside of faults. On the other hand, the disadvantages of repeater analysis include their uneven spatial distribution and the uncertainty of the estimates of slip amount requiring a scaling relationship between earthquake size and slip. There are considerable variations in the inferred slip amounts from different relationships. Applications of repeater analysis illuminate the spatial distribution of interplate stable slip, after slip, and spontaneous and cyclic slow slip events that represent important components of interplate slip processes in addition to major earthquakes.
The Alpine Fault is the most major source of seismic hazard in the South Island of New Zealand, with the potential to produce a magnitude 8+ earthquake and associated ground shaking and co-seismic hazards (e.g. landslides and liquefaction), and severe, widespread and long-term impacts throughout southern and central New Zealand. Scientific investigation of the hazard and risk posed by the Alpine Fault to New Zealand society over recent decades, and several recent large earthquake disasters in New Zealand (the 2010-2011 Canterbury earthquake sequence and the 2016 Kaikoura earthquake) have created considerable national, regional and local awareness and motivation to boost disaster risk management efforts for major earthquakes, further emphasising the importance of Project AF8's objectives. In July 2016, a project to develop a collective South Island emergency response plan was initiated, in partnership with all South Island Civil Defence Emergency Management (CDEM) groups and the Alpine Fault research community. This has become known as Project AF8 (Alpine Fault, magnitude 8). We describe the development and outcomes of the project, towards enhancing societal resilience to a future Alpine Fault earthquake.
We perform earthquake cycle simulations with the goal of studying the characteristics of source scaling relations and strong ground motions in multi-segmented fault ruptures. The 1992 M-w 7.3 Landers earthquake is chosen as a target earthquake to validate our methodology. The model includes the fault geometry for the three-segmented Landers rupture from the SCEC community fault model, extended at both ends to a total length of 200 km, and limited to a depth to 15 km. We assume the faults are governed by rate-and-state (RS) friction, with a heterogeneous, correlated spatial distribution of characteristic weakening distance Dc. Multiple earthquake cycles on this non-planar fault system are modeled with a quasi-dynamic solver based on the boundary element method, substantially accelerated by implementing a hierarchical-matrix method. The resulting seismic ruptures are recomputed using a fully-dynamic solver based on the spectral element method, with the same RS friction law. The simulated earthquakes nucleate on different sections of the fault, and include events similar to the M-w 7.3 Landers earthquake. We obtain slip velocity functions, rupture times and magnitudes that can be compared to seismological observations. The simulated ground motions are validated by comparison of simulated and recorded response spectra.
Deep-water megasplay faults may promote or limit earthquake rupture and tsunami genesis. To better understand how megasplay faults affect earthquake rupture and associated tsunami potential, we use the Discrete Element Method (DEM) to model the upper plate as a wedge that is partitioned into a seismic (velocity -weakening, VW) inner wedge and an aseismic outer (velocity-strengthening, VS) wedge, combined with a splay fault rooting at the decollement. We examine the effects of the width of the outer (VS) wedge, as well as the dip and friction along the splay fault during earthquake rupture. Our results suggest that along-strike variations in the width of the VS outer wedge along the Chile Margin may play a key role in splay fault activity in the ruptured segment of the 2010 Maule earthquake. In addition, our model fit to the published slip distribution for the 2010 Maule earthquake suggests that megasplay fault activation did not significantly impact earthquake size along the south-central Chile Margin. In contrast, our model fit to the slip distribution for the 2011 Tohoku earthquake shows that megasplay fault reactivation may have moderately affected earthquake coseismic rupture. Splay faults can slip coseismically, contributing to associated tsunamis. However, the presence of a VS outer wedge is the predominant constraint on rupture size and tsunami generation.
Detecting the terrain surface cracks caused by earthquakes, which are termed coseismic ruptures, has important significance for discovering concealed faults, monitoring their movements, and forecasting possible follow-on earthquakes. On May 22, 2021, Maduo County in Qinghai province, China, suffered an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.4, which created densely distributed cracks. In this study, we designed an automatic crack detection framework based on remote sensing technology. With the use of low-altitude unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), we obtained very high-resolution aerial images of the area affected by the earthquake, which were further processed by photogrammetric software to produce digital orthophoto maps (DOMs). We then designed a novel terrain surface crack detection neural network, which differs from the previous methods that focus on detecting cracks in man-made object surfaces such as flat roads. We investigated the spatial property of the sinuous linear cracks and handled this by introducing adaptive deformable convolutions with a context-channel-space boosted mechanism. The feature extraction stage, feature optimization stage, and upsampling stage were embedded with the deformable convolutions to form a compact and powerful crack detector, named Crack-CADNet [the Context-chAnnel-space boosted Deformable convolutional neural network (CNN) for crack detection]. The postprocessing included filtering out the nontectonic cracks, aided by annotations from experts, and grouping and vectorizing the generated binary segmentation map as crack polygons, which were evaluated at the instance level. In addition to the first in-depth investigation of detecting earthquake cracks with aerial remote sensing and a deep learning-based process, the crack detection network we propose outperformed the recent CNN-based methods designed for general semantic segmentation and crack detection. Source code and the Maduo earthquake crack dataset will be available at http://gpcv.whu.edu.cn/data/.
Human behavior during earthquakes and post-earthquake evacuation is crucial to earthquake safety. Understanding decision-making processes may explain why people respond in different ways to earthquakes. This information can assist with the development of earthquake evacuation guidelines and practices. Verbal Protocol Analysis (VPA) can be used to investigate decision-making processes. VPA encourages participants to think aloud while they are executing tasks. However, it is difficult to obtain such data during actual earthquakes or traditional evacuation drills. Immersive Virtual Reality (IVR) is an innovative tool that can be applied to investigate human behavior under extreme conditions such as earthquakes. In this study, we used a headmounted display (HMD)-based IVR for investigating decision-making processes during an earthquake emergency based in Auckland City Hospital. A total of 83 hospital staff and visitors completed the experiment. VPA was carried out along with the IVR. The responses of VPA were analyzed to identify decision-making themes. Results show that participants tended to be influenced by other people, especially those in authority positions, and wanted to accompany other people while evacuating. Participants were also found to have wait-or-flight responses in post-earthquake evacuation. Implications for current earthquake evacuation guidelines and practice are provided based on the results.
Many major faults separate two tectonic plates that slowly move past each other in opposite directions. The relative motion is accommodated by faults by both sudden dramatic rupture events perceived as earthquakes and much slower, quasi-static fault slips. We study the mechanics of these rupture processes using dynamic-fracture ideas and continuum-mechanics modeling that incorporates laboratory-derived fault friction laws [1-3], shear heating, and effects of pore fluids [4-6]. The modeling can reproduce all stages of the past behavior of some fault segments-including locked, slowly moving, and earthquake-producing-with remarkable qualitative, and often quantitative, agreement. In part, it reveals the potential physics behind the unexpected extreme events, such the 2011 Mw 9.0 Tohoku earthquake in Japan [6, 7] that caused up to 40-m tsunami and numerous casualties. The modeling has been used to study situations in which energy-related quantities estimated from seismic shaking based on traditional fracture mechanics theory are valid and when they are not [8]. Such continuum-mechanics-based models, when further developed, will enable us to incorporate our increasing understanding of earthquake source physics into the assessment of seismic hazards and seismicity response to perturbations of natural or anthropogenic origins.
Tectonic earthquake swarms (TES) often coincide with aseismic slip and sometimes precede damaging earthquakes. In spite of recent progress in understanding the significance and properties of TES at plate boundaries, their mechanics and scaling are still largely uncertain. Here we evaluate several TES that occurred during the past 20 years on a transform plate boundary in North Iceland. We show that the swarms complement each other spatially with later swarms discouraged from fault segments activated by earlier swarms, which suggests efficient strain release and aseismic slip. The fault area illuminated by earthquakes during swarms may be more representative of the total moment release than the cumulative moment of the swarm earthquakes. We use these findings and other published results from a variety of tectonic settings to discuss general scaling properties for TES. The results indicate that the importance of TES in releasing tectonic strain at plate boundaries may have been underestimated. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Based on a spherically symmetric, self-gravitating viscoelastic Earth model, we derive a complete set of Green's functions for the post-seismic surface strain changes for four independent dislocation sources: strike-slip, dip-slip, and horizontal and vertical tensile point sources. The post-seismic surface strain changes caused by an arbitrary earthquake can be obtained by a combination of the above Green's functions. The post-seismic surface strain changes in the near field agree well with the results calculated by the method in a half-space Earth model (Wang et al. in Comupt Geosci 32:527-541, 2006), which verifies our Green's functions. With an increase in the epicentral distance, the effect of the curvature on both the co- and post-seismic strain changes clearly increases, revealing the importance of our spherical theory for far-field calculations. Next, we use our Green's functions to simulate the post-seismic surface strain changes that were caused by the viscoelastic relaxation of the mantle over the 6-year period after the Tohoku-Oki M-w 9.0 earthquake. Based on continuous Global Positioning System (GPS) observations around Honshu Island of Japan, Northeastern China, South Korea and the Russian Far East, we also deduce the post-seismic strain changes caused by the Tohoku-Oki M-w 9.0 earthquake. Overall, the distributions of the calculated and GPS-derived strain changes agree well each other. Finally, we compare the relative error between the observed and simulated strain changes over the 3.0-4.5-year period after the earthquake in both the near and far field. We find that the relative errors decrease as the epicentral distance increases, which validates our Green's functions for research in the far field.
Earthquakes can influence the activity of mud volcanoes and other fluid expulsion systems, which may erupt or change their activity shortly after the seismic event. This study investigates the influence of static and dynamic stresses, produced by some important earthquakes in Taiwan, on fluid expulsion systems that have coseismically responded to such events. Peak dynamic stresses have been estimated at the considered seepage features using available peak ground velocities, while computation of static stress changes has been performed considering the orientation of the feeder systems that are structurally controlling mud volcano development. Feeder dike orientations have been determined on the basis of the geometric characteristics of mud volcanoes (e.g., volcano elongation, vent alignments), and their spatial distribution shows some correlation with regional structures and the active tectonic stress field. The responses of Taiwanese fluid expulsion systems to earthquakes are correlated with the amplitude of dynamic stresses generated by seismic waves, while static stresses have or have not contributed to the triggering depending on the case. This observation suggests that static stresses are unlikely to be a necessary causative mechanism, as seepage systems do respond to earthquakes even when changes in static stress are unfavourable.
The Indonesian Earthquake Centre has discovered two fault zones in Surabaya, causing a 6.5 magnitude earthquake in 2017. Since Indonesia lies in the ring of fire area, the national government has stipulated several earthquake-building regulations. However, with no history of significant earthquakes, Surabaya has no strict local building regulations to reduce the new risk. Previous studies indicate that simple buildings in Surabaya are the most vulnerable during any earthquake events. Simple buildings, as permanent and semipermanent constructions, dominate in the category of residential buildings in Surabaya. Furthermore, vulnerable buildings are the primary cause of fatalities and injuries during earthquake events. Consequently, the revision of current local building regulations is the key milestone to reduce the earthquake risk in Surabaya. This paper evaluates current local and national building regulations by using content analysis of in-depth interviews and focus group discussion data, and then proposes adjustments to the local regulations to increasing the resilience degree of constructions in Surabaya. The modifications on current local regulations are mainly related to the shape of the building and the material used for facades and building safety analysis (load factor analysis and collapse scenarios).
Large-scale earthquakes are predicted to occur in Japan in the near future. Quantitative evaluation and comparison of micro-scale damage risk and initial response capability throughout the country is expected to support disaster prevention planning to mitigate damage during large-scale earthquakes. We developed an estimation method of fire resistance performance, structure, building age, and resident information of about 60 million buildings across Japan by disaggregating various census data into building polygon data. By comparing the results obtained by this method with true values, we found that the reliability of this method was high. Finally, by adding probabilistic seismic motions predicted to occur in Japan to these data, we could estimate damage risk corresponding to earthquake motion.
The main purpose of this study is to comparatively assess the susceptibility of earthquake-triggered landslides in the island of Lefkada (Ionian Islands, Greece) using two different statistical analysis models, a bivariate model represented by frequency ratio (FR), and a multivariate model represented by logistic regression (LR). For the implementation of the models, the relationship between geo-environmental factors contributing to landslides and documented events related to the 17th November 2015 earthquake was investigated by geographic information systems (GIS)-based analysis. A landslide inventory with events attributed to the specific earthquake was prepared using satellite imagery interpretation and field surveys. Eight factors: Elevation, slope angle, slope aspect, distance to main road network, distance to faults, land cover, geology, and peak ground acceleration (PGA), were considered and used as thematic data layers. The prediction capability of the models and the accuracy of the resulting susceptibility maps were tested by a standard validation method, the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) analysis. Based on the validation results, the output map with the highest reliability could potentially constitute an ideal basis for use within regional spatial planning as well as for the organization of emergency actions by local authorities.
The long rupture length and complex fault geometries of the 2008 M-w 7.9 Wenchuan earthquake offer a great opportunity to investigate the relationship between coseismic radiation and fault complexities. In this study, we first improved the compressive-sensing back-projection method (CS-BP) with window time adjustment and parallel computation to enhance its spatial-temporal resolution and computational efficiency. Then we applied the CS-BP to invert for the coseismic radiation of the Wenchuan earthquake in multiple frequency bands. Our results show that the coseismic radiation of the Wenchuan earthquake is frequency-dependent and strongly associated with the fault geometries: low-frequency radiation sources are concentrated on smooth fault segments with large coseismic slip, while higher-frequency sources are mainly related to fault complexities (e.g., Xiaoyudong fault, Gaochuan fault-bend, Leigu fault-bend, and Nanba fault step-over). An acceleration of rupture speed from similar to 1.5 to similar to 3.0km/s is also observed the near Xiaoyudong fault, where strong high-frequency energies were radiated. Finally, we discuss the role of rupture speed in mediating the relationship between coseismic radiation and fault complexities. On one hand, sudden changes of rupture speeds contribute to strong high-frequency radiation. On the other hand, fault complexities can also strongly affect the rupture speed: a sudden break of a large asperity is able to propel the acceleration, while rupture front may decelerate when it jumps across geometric barriers.
Nowadays, most smartphones are equipped with accelerometer sensor, which can be used to record acceleration caused by movements or vibration. It opens the opportunity to use them as a personal earthquake early warning system where people can use their smartphone to detect the incoming earthquake. However, to avoid false alarm, we must be able to recognize the source of sensor acceleration. One of the most common sources of vibration recorded by smartphone accelerometer is human activities. In this work, we used machine learning to distinguish the source of movement by observing the acceleration value caused by human activities and earthquakes. RNN-LSTM neural network is trained with labeled time series acceleration data and used to recognize the movement source. Our model show potential to differentiate between human activity and earthquake movement with training accuracy value of 97% and test loss value equal to 0.3.
Earthquake emergency plan (EEP) is one of effective approach to overall strengthen the ability to earthquake disasters reduction. Colleges and universities (C&U) where locate in Beijing region are one of the main body of earthquake preparedness and disaster reduction work. The paper designed to questionnaire to test effectiveness of EEP implementation. The investigation was taken random in different of C&U campus. The effect of EEP learning and practice learning by contrastive analyses. Different school has different practice. So, every kind C&U should take different way to practice plan.
We investigate the veracity of the reports by Iwata and Umeno (2016, ) and Iwata and Umeno (2017, ), both of which claimed that the observed perturbations in Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)-based ionospheric total electron content (TEC) could serve as a precursor of large earthquakes based on correlation analysis. Iwata and Umeno (2016, defined a spatial correlation of residuals between the observed and predicted TEC time series. They reported that the correlation value is significantly larger before large earthquakes than those observed during non-earthquake periods. Iwata and Umeno (2017, , who applied the same method to other large earthquake, claimed that the preseismic ionospheric disturbances can be distinguished from other non-earthquake phenomena based on the small percentage of area where the correlation value exceeds the criterion. They also claimed that the low propagation velocity of the correlation peaks is also a preseismic characteristic. Here we tested their claims using a larger data set. As a result, these three characteristics they claimed to have captured as evidence of earthquake precursors are not significant being frequently observed during normal (nonearthquake) days. In addition to that, the criteria of Iwata and Umeno (2017, cannot be applied to the large earthquake discussed by Iwata and Umeno (2016, , and vice versa. Therefore, we can find no basis for claiming that they detected precursors to the earthquakes. The calculation procedure of the correlation function shows that the value is more of an indicator that amplifies small variations synchronized between nearby stations, like medium-scale traveling ionospheric disturbances rather than earthquake precursors.
Earthquakes can result in disasters affecting infrastructure and assets that are exposed and vulnerable and thus prone to damage. Considering earthquake cascades, we can reveal the immediate and intermediate effects of earthquakes causing infrastructure damage. In this study, we propose a network analytical modeling approach to analyze earthquake cascades. The analytical framework integrates incident causation modeling and probabilistic network analysis. The linear effects from earthquakes are delineated in incident chains to represent the consequences of earthquakes to infrastructure; the incident chains are then remodeled topologically by the network theory to reveal the nonlinear cascading effects of earthquakes to infrastructure. The network of earthquakes? effects and intermediate effects is then structurally analyzed by probabilistic network analysis that uncovers the unifying principles and statistical topology of earthquake cascades to infrastructure. The results show that earthquakes can directly cause significant damage to infrastructure and indirectly cascade the effects to infrastructure damage via intermediate effects; each effect or intermediate effects in earthquake cascades have their own role in leading to infrastructure damage. The critical infrastructure damage due to earthquakes and critical intermediate effects in propagating earthquake cascades are revealed in this study by the network analysis of network density, degree centrality, closeness centrality, betweenness centrality, and cascade quantification. To reduce infrastructure damage due to earthquake cascades, we suggest tackling the directed interdependent intermediate effects to minimize the risks associated with earthquakes to infrastructure damage. The network analytical framework in this study can be used to understand the propagation damage of earthquakes on infrastructure; thus, our work can provide valuable insight into earthquake preparedness and emergency management.
On the southwestern Korean Peninsula, a 74-earthquake swarm was recorded between April 26 and May 9, 2020, with a maximum local magnitude (M-L) of 3.1. This is the third such event since instrumental seismic recordings began in South Korea in 1978. Because this area is located on a stable continent, this rare swarm event provides an opportunity to analyze earthquake sources and attenuation characteristics in this region. In this study, we first analyzed the intensity measure (IM) and the frequency content of the ground motions recorded during this swarm event. Next, we investigated the effects of earthquake magnitude and source-to-site distance on IMs, compared with those derived from international and local ground-motion models (GMMs). We found that the magnitude scaling slope (i.e., variation of IMs depending on M-L) of the earthquake swarm records for M-L >= 1.8 is similar to the slopes derived from GMMs, while for M-L < 1.8, the slope from the records is steeper. For distance scaling (i.e., variation of IMs depending on source-to-site distance), the slopes from records are gentler than those from GMMs. This indicates that ground motion attenuates slowly in this region, compared to other global regions.
The analysis of the spatio-temporal patterns of the distribution of medium-strength earthquakes (K >= 9.6) was carried out in order to determine the possibility of using them for the medium-term forecast for 2020. The territory of the Eastern Tien Shan and Dzungaria, encompassed by coordinates 41 degrees 40' - 45 degrees 30' of the north latitude and 74 degrees 00' - 81 degrees 00' of the east longitude, was adopted as a test site. The catalog of earthquakes with energy class K >= 9.6 (M >= 4.2) for 1951-2019 and strong earthquakes with M >= 5.6-6.0 (total 16) that occurred during the indicated period was used. Based on a retrospective analysis of the time course of the annual values of the number of earthquakes (parameter N is the number of medium-strength earthquakes with K = 9.6), determined for the whole observation period with a shift of 3 months, anomalous changes in its behavior were revealed consisting in a successive alternation of activation periods (N > N-cr = N-av +/- s), i.e. the parameter N exceeds certain critical level of N-cr and lull (N < N-cr), which are associated with the times of occurrence of strong earthquakes in the study area. The fact of the existence of the activation-lull process for medium-sized earthquakes during periods of preparation of strong earthquakes is described in many studies on the theory of preparation and practice of forecasting and is used to predict strong earthquakes for various seismically active regions of Eurasia. According to studies, the distribution area of various precursors is so wide in size that it suggests the participation of large areas in the preparation of strong earthquakes. A juxtaposition of the anomalous periods with the times of occurrence of strong earthquakes indicates the existence of a fairly close relationship between them. Indeed, before fourteen earthquakes out of 16 there was an anomalous lull in the number of earthquakes of medium strength, which is observed after activation. Three false alarms also occurred. As a result of the study, 3 sites were identified, within or in the immediate vicinity of which earthquakes with M >= 5.6-6.0 in the next one to two years are likely to occur.
The 2017 M-w 6.5 Jiuzhaigou, China, earthquake occurred in the very northeastern corner of the Bayanhar block, in a region of a complex confluence of several faults. There were no surface ruptures during the earthquake, making it hard to determine which fault ruptured in the Jiuzhaigou earthquake. Based on Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) and Global Positioning System (GPS) measurements, we infer that the Jiuzhaigou earthquake involved predominantly left-lateral motion on a north-northwest-south-southeast-trending fault, dipping about 50 degrees to the southwest. We infer a compact coseismic slip distribution, located in the range of about 1-10 km depth below the surface. The estimated geodetic moment is 6: 3 x 10(18) N . m, corresponding to M-w 6.5. Based on the coseismic slip model and relocated aftershocks, we infer that the Jiuzhaigou earthquake occurred on a previously unidentified segment of the Huya fault, extending to the north-northwest from the mapped Huya fault toward the eastern Kunlun fault. The Jiuzhaigou earthquake, along with the 1973 and 1976 Songpan earthquakes and surrounding fault motion, suggests that the Huya fault forms the boundary of a triangle sub-block (TSB) within the eastern Bayanhar block. The TSB is rotating clockwise and accommodates the eastern extrusion of the Tibetan plateau and collision of the Bayanhar and Sichuan blocks. The occurrence of the latest Jiuzhaigou earthquake highlights the fact that that the seismic risks posed by such blind or buried faults alike in the northeastern Tibet should be considered.
ObjectiveThe study aimed to gather data on posttraumatic stress and depression in adolescents following the 2015 Nepal earthquake and explore the adolescents' coping strategies.MethodsIn a questionnaire-based, cross-sectional study about 1 year after the earthquake, adolescents in two districts with different degrees of impact were evaluated for disaster experience, coping strategies, and symptoms of posttraumatic stress and depression measured with the Child Posttraumatic Stress Scale and the Depression Self Rating Scale.ResultsIn the studied sample (N=409), the estimated prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) (43.3%) and depression (38.1%) was considerable. Prevalence of PTSD was significantly higher in the more affected area (49.0% v 37.9%); however, the prevalence figures were comparable in adolescents who reported a stress. The prevalence of depression was comparable. Female gender, joint family, financial problems, displacement, injury or being trapped in the earthquake, damage to livelihood, and fear of death were significantly associated with a probable PTSD diagnosis. Various coping strategies were used: talking to others, praying, helping others, hoping for the best, and some activities were common. Drug abuse was rare. Most of the coping strategies were comparable among the clinical groups.ConclusionsA considerable proportion of adolescents had posttraumatic stress and depression 1 year after the earthquake. There is a need for clinical interventions and follow-up studies regarding the outcome. Disaster Med Public Health Preparedness. 2019;13:236-242)
INTRODUCTION: An understanding of mothers as a subset of women who are active contributors to a recovery effort is crucial to building disaster resilience. This study explored the post-disaster experiences of mothers from the two Christchurch earthquakes in 2010 and 2011 to consider factors which both helped and hindered their recovery. METHOD: This research was a qualitative study involving semi-structured interviews with six married mothers who were present during the 2010 and 2011 Christchurch earthquakes. Interviews focused on understanding the personal, environmental and psychological impacts of the earthquakes. Data were analysed using thematic analysis. FINDINGS: Three key findings were established, highlighting: 1) Elements of resilience are essential for recovery; 2) mothers playing a constructive and proactive role in their community post-disaster; and 3) the importance of a sense of belonging to enhance post-disaster recovery. CONCLUSION: While participants were affected practically and psychologically by the earthquakes, core characteristics of resilience such as positivity, hope, flexibility and adaptability were portrayed in supporting their post-disaster recovery. These mothers played an active role in the recovery of their community and felt a clear sense of belonging which enhanced their recovery.
Fault zone composition, structures and physical properties are the keys to understand the fault deformation mechanisms and earthquake generation processes. Seismic and aseismic slip behaviors are essential to learn about fault zone seismicity and mountain uplift processes, which provide scientific basis for Earthquake prevention and disaster reduction. Based on surface outcrop investigation and detailed research on the drilling cores of the Wenchuan earthquake Fault Scientific Drilling (WFSD), fault zone characteristics, microstructures and physical properties of fault rocks were determined, and new knowledge about the fault zone deformation mechanisms and related Longmen Shan uplift are suggested; (1) The Yingxiu-Beichuan fault (YBF) dips to NW with an angle of 65 degrees at shallow depth, consisting of - 1 similar to 80-280 m-wide fault rocks of cataclasite, pseudotachylyte (fossil earthquake) , fault gouge and fault breccia. The fault zone has higher natural gamma and magnetic susceptibility, lower electrical resistivity and wave velocity, and a symmetrical fracture structure. Gouge graphitization and high magnetic susceptibility are observed in the fault zone due to the high temperature generated by ancient seismic faulting, indicating large earthquakes happened frequently along this fault. Large earthquakes (as Wenchuan earthquake) recurrence period is less than 6000-10000 years since late Cenozoic, charactered with millennium recurrence period. (2) The Guanxian-Anxian fault (GAF) dips to NW with an angle of 38 degrees degrees consisting of -similar to 0-50 m -thick fault breccia and fault gouge with lower magnetic susceptibility. Multi-scale structural analyzes show that the brittle fault rocks display characteristics of pressolution and ductile-like structures, indicating that the GAF is an aseismic fault with long-term creeping properties. Besides, phyllosilicates-nrih gouge and pervasive micropores are responsible for weakening the GAF. The physical properties of the GAF are similar to that of the YBF, except the lower magnetic susceptibility. (3) Based on the empirical formula between fault displacement and fault core thickness, and taking the fault occurrences into consideration, a cumulative vertical displacement of >9 km is roughly estimated for the YBF, whereas that of the GAF is <3 km. Therefore, the accumulative vertical displacement generated by the long-term seismicity of the YBF is the main contribution to the Longmen Shan uplift.
Earthquake depth frequency distribution is often used as a constraining factor in assessing lithospheric strength. The accuracy of hypocenter locations is therefore a key factor in these types of analyses. This paper presents a summary of earthquake depth distributions in the Baikal rift system reported in various previous studies. Datasets on both background seismicity and aftershock sequences were analyzed by taking into account hypocenter depth uncertainties. The results show that the most seismically active part of the Earth's crust is in a depth range of 10-25 km. The lower cutoff depth varies for different datasets from 20 to 40 km. The latter value corresponds to the Kichera sequence and coincides with the Moho depth, but other datasets show that the lower 8-18 km of the crust is aseismic. The South Baikal basin is distinguished by the shallower cutoff depth (20-24 km) compared to the datasets outside of it. The peak depths of the earthquake depth frequency distributions vary from 8 to 23 km. Given the depth uncertainties, only the Kumora sequence appears to have double peaks at 9-10 km and 16-17 km. Variations in the lower limit of earthquake distribution and depth of the main peak may imply a spatial change in the depth of the brittle-ductile transition and consequently in the thermomechanical properties of the crust.
Yunnan Province is in southwest China, where the seismicity has been active since ancient times. Generally, the uncertainty of historical earthquake parameters is larger. To amend the parameters of historical earthquakes, we have developed a new intensity attenuation equation. From 2000 to 2018, there were 25 instrumentally recorded earthquakes with M-s 5.0-6.6 in Yunnan. The parameters of those earthquake events, including their epicentral locations and magnitudes, are determined with high accuracy. Meanwhile, total intensity values of 1345 intensity data points have been carefully assessed by survey. With both accurate earthquake parameters and valuable intensity data, a new intensity attenuation equation has been established. The result shows the optimal intensity magnitude M-I can be calculated from the mean of M-i = (I-2.1113 + 0.0412 Delta(i) + 1.3717lg Delta(i))= 1.1641, in which Delta(i) is the distance between the epicenter and the surveyed seismic point. By adapting the method proposed by Bakun and Wentworth (1997) for determining earthquake source parameters directly from historical intensity data, we have tested retrospectively the new attenuation on the 25 instrumentally recorded earthquakes. Then this attenuation was applied to deal with the parameters of two historical earthquakes, the 26 February 1713 Xundian earthquake and the 11 May 1909 Huaning earthquakes. Our results reduced the uncertainty of previously estimated parameters, which were large. The amended parameters will be valuable for seismic hazard analysis and earthquake disaster reduction.
Earthquakes follow a well-known power-law size relation, with smaller events occurring much more often than larger events. Earthquake catalogs are thus dominated by small earthquakes yet are still missing a much larger number of even smaller events because of signal fidelity issues. To overcome these limitations, we applied a template-matching detection technique to the entire waveform archive of the regional seismic network in Southern California. This effort resulted in a catalog with 1.81 million earthquakes, a 10-fold increase, which provides important insights into the geometry of fault zones at depth, foreshock behavior and nucleation processes, and earthquake-triggering mechanisms. The rich detail resolved in this type of catalog will facilitate the next generation of analyses of earthquakes and faults.
Nowcasting earthquakes, suggested recently as a method to estimate the state of a fault and hence the seismic risk, is based on the concept of natural time. Here, we generalize nowcasting to a prediction method the merits of which are evaluated by means of the receiver operating characteristics. This new prediction method is applied to a simple (toy) model for the waiting (natural) time of the stronger earthquakes, real seismicity, and the Olami-Feder-Christensen earthquake model with interesting results revealing acceptable to excellent or even outstanding performance.
The West Helanshan fault is situated at the junction of the northeastern Tibetan Plateau, Alxa, and Ordos blocks, providing an opportunity to investigate the deformation in the transitional zone between the contractional northeastern Tibetan Plateau and extensional North China. Using field investigations and satellite imagery interpretations, we determined detailed geometry and kinematics of the West Helanshan fault. The West Helanshan fault is divided into three segments, including the northern, middle, and southern segments, based on varying fault strike, slip sense, and geomorphic expression. The northern and middle segments are dominated by rightlateral strike-slip motion as indicated by linear fault traces, horizontally offset streams and terrace risers, relatively insignificant vertical offset, and frequently changing facing direction of fault scarps. The late Quaternary right-slip rate is estimated to be 0.2-0.4 mm/yr, which is relatively low comparing with other strike-slip faults in the northeastern Tibetan Plateau, based on Be-10-dated offset fluvial/alluvial surfaces. The southern segment shows conspicuous fault scarps with significant systematic vertical offset, which has a reverse component as revealed in the trench. The timing of the most recent earthquake revealed in the trench is constrained to be between 6.2 +/- 0.7 ka and 5.9 +/- 0.4 ka. Notably, the West Helanshan fault cuts through the city center of Azuoqi town, which is the capital of Azuoqi county and has about 100,000 residents, carrying high potential earthquake hazard in the future. Finally, combining the regional fault geometry and kinematics with GPS observations, we propose a limited north-northeastward extrusion model for the southern Alxa Block.
On-site earthquake early warning techniques, which issue alerts based on seismic waves measured at a single station, are promising, and have performed quite successfully during some damaging earthquakes. Conventionally, most existing techniques extract several P-wave features from the first few seconds of seismic waves after the trigger to predict the intensity or destructiveness of an incoming earthquake. This type of technique neglects the behavior of temporal varying features within P waves. In other words, the characteristics of data sequences are not considered. In this study, a long short-term memory (LSTM) neural network, which is capable of learning order dependence in seismic waves, is employed to predict the peak ground acceleration (PGA) of the coming earthquake. A dense LSTM architecture is proposed and a large data set of earthquakes is used to train the LSTM model. The general performance of the LSTM model indicated that the predicted PGA values are quite promising but are generally overestimated. However, the predicted PGA of the Chi-Chi earthquake data set, whose fault rupture is complex and long, using the proposed LSTM model is more accurate than the PGA predicted in a previous study using a support vector regression approach. In addition, an alternative alert criterion, which issues alerts when the predicted PGA exceeds the threshold in successive time windows, is presented, and the performance of the proposed LSTM model when different PGA thresholds are considered is also discussed.
After the M-L = 6.0 earthquake which occurred on 24th August 2016 in central Italy, some unexpected variability in the damage distribution were identified in many villages located around the epicentral area. In particular, despite a distance of only about 1300 m, the villages of Pescara del Tronto and Vezzano (both districts in the Arquata del Tronto municipality) had a different damage assessment. Pescara del Tronto suffered heavy damage, with many collapsed masonry buildings and 48 fatalities, whereas Vezzano suffered negligible to slight damage to a few buildings. This paper provides vulnerability and damage assessment in order to detect potential significant differences in the building vulnerability and damage level. Geophysical prospectings were performed to assess whether site effects could have increased the damage in Pescara del Tronto compared to Vezzano.
A destructive intraslab earthquake occurred in Mexico City on September 19, 2017 (Mw 7.1), causing significant damage and hundreds of human losses not only in the epicentral area, but also in the States of Morelos, Puebla, Mexico and in Mexico City. Only in Mexico City itself, around 230 people died, and more than 40 buildings collapsed. The intensities recorded in some lakebed areas of the city, especially in zones with soil periods around 1.5 s, were relatively high, even surpassing spectral values of 1.0 g; the vertical component, due to the proximity of the earthquake, was unusually high for Mexico City. The 2017 earthquake raised questions critical to understanding the city's seismic vulnerability and resilience, and they are partly answered in this article. Using 77 accelerometric stations, the amplification pattern of the seismic intensities is characterized as well as the correlations of buildings structural characteristics with the site effects. A comprehensive statistical analysis of the damages is shown to analyze and understand the structural behavior of damaged buildings. It is including not only the structural types and the year of construction, but also the main structural problems identified (structural pathologies), such as irregularities, both in elevation and plan, soft story, and corner effect. The building damage database was constructed with 2125 reports of buildings carried out by universities and engineering associations after the earthquake, of which 543 had severe damage. It is also included the information of all buildings with no damage in the city thanks to the cadastral information provided by the Mexico City government, and post-earthquake inspections and visual inspections using Google Street View. A full study of selected neighborhoods, which compares similar buildings with and without damage, is included, yielding relevant statistical information on which pathologies cause more damage and even collapses.
Since its 1960s origins, the Haddon matrix has served as a tool to understand and prevent diverse mechanisms of injuries and promote safety. Potential remains for broadened application and innovation of the matrix for disaster preparedness. Hospital functionality and efficiency are particularly important components of community vulnerability in developed and developing nations alike. Given the Haddon matrix's user-friendly approach to integrating current engineering concepts, behavioral sciences, and policy dimensions, we seek to apply it in the context of hospital earthquake preparedness and response. The matrix's framework lends itself to interdisciplinary planning and collaboration between social and physical sciences, paving the way for a systems-oriented reduction in vulnerabilities. Here, using an associative approach to integrate seemingly disparate social and physical science disciplines yields innovative insights about hospital disaster preparedness for earthquakes. We illustrate detailed examples of pre-event, event, and post-event engineering, behavioral science, and policy factors that hospital planners should evaluate given the complex nature, rapid onset, and broad variation in impact and outcomes of earthquakes. This novel contextual examination of the Haddon matrix can enhance critical infrastructure disaster preparedness across the epidemiologic triad, by integrating essential principles of behavioral sciences, policy, law, and engineering to earthquake preparedness.
To explore the ionospheric coupling mechanism, the total electron contents (TECs) and slant TECs (STECs) were processed from GPS sites in China, Nepal and India, and the singular spectrum analysis (SSA) method was introduced to investigate the seismic-ionospheric signals prior to the Mw7.8 Nepal earthquake on April 25, 2015. The results of pre-earthquake ionospheric anomaly show that there were obviously positive on 2(nd) day and negative anomalies on 14(th) day prior to the earthquake, respectively. The radius of anomalous area with a regular elliptical shape reached 2500 km and 2000 km in the above days respectively, which was close to the radius of Nepal earthquake. After excluding the moving effects of ionosphere hump, the investigation by the global ionosphere maps (GIMs) shows that a wide TEC abnormality appeared over the epicenter and conjugated region with the duration of 12 hr. Besides, the magnitude of TEC anomalies impending the shock, with its peaks happening at the midday (local time), was proportional to the number of days prior to the occurrence. By using the STECs within seismogenic zone, we further studied the coseismic ionospheric disturbance (CID) of Nepal earthquake. The results show that two modes of CID propagation velocity have been detected. Due to the TEC respond of Rayleigh wave, one mode had average propagating speed of 1.3 km/s in the near-field within 800 km, and gradually reaching up to 2.7 km/s in the far-field beyond 2000 km. Another mode had average propagating speed of 0.6 km/s only existing in the near-field, which was in accordance with the speed of shock acoustic waves. Besides, CID intensity presented the obvious directional difference. The ambient magnetic field around the epicenter made it easier for CID to spread in the southward direction, the plateau topography also prohibited the propagation of ionospheric disturbance, and most CID points were detected along the southeast direction of the epicenter which is consistent with the rupture propagation.
An M-w 5.9 thrust earthquake occurred on 21 January 2016 in the northeastern Tibetan plateau, where another similar earthquake had ruptured in 1986. Because of the complexity and close proximity of multiple faults in this area, the exact causative fault sources for these two events have not previously been determined. We determined the seismogenic fault structural geometry of the 2016 event by analyzing the coseismic deformation from Sentinel-1A images, aftershock relocations, and geological data. Furthermore, field investigations and the relocated aftershocks for the 1986 event were used to investigate its seismogenic fault and relation with the 2016 Menyuan earthquake. The results indicate that the reverse slip of both events was distributed on the southwest-dipping Minyue-Damaying fault, where the 2016 event ruptured the deep segment and the 1986 event ruptured the shallow segment. We envision that the depth segmentation played an important role in the occurrence of two moderate earthquakes rupturing the same active fault but separated by almost 30 yr, which is thought much shorter than the average earthquake recurrence cycle. Our study indicates that seismic risks could be underestimated if depth segmentation is not considered.
Precisely constraining the source parameters of large earthquakes is one of the primary objectives of seismology. However, the quality of the results relies on the quality of synthetic earth response. Although earth structure is laterally heterogeneous, particularly at shallow depth, most earthquake source studies at the global scale rely on the Green's functions calculated with radially symmetric (1-D) earth structure. To avoid the impact of inaccurate Green's functions, these conventional source studies use a limited set of seismic phases, such as long-period seismic waves, broad-band P and S waves in teleseismic distances (30 degrees < increment < 90 degrees), and strong ground motion records at close-fault stations. The enriched information embedded in the broad-band seismograms recorded by global and regional networks is largely ignored, limiting the spatiotemporal resolution. Here we calculate 3-D strain Green's functions at 30 GSN stations for source regions of 9 selected global earthquakes and one earthquake-prone area (California), with frequency up to 67 mHz (15 s), using SPECFEM3D_GLOBE and the reciprocity theorem. The 3-D SEM mesh model is composed of mantle model S40RTS, crustal model CRUST2.0 and surface topography ETOPO2. We surround each target event with grids in horizontal spacing of 5 km and vertical spacing of 2.0-3.0 km, allowing us to investigate not only the main shock but also the background seismicity. In total, the response at over 210 000 source points is calculated in simulation. The number of earthquakes, including different focal mechanisms, centroid depth range and tectonic background, could further increase without additional computational cost if they were properly selected to avoid overloading individual CPUs. The storage requirement can be reduced by two orders of magnitude if the output strain Green's functions are stored for periods over 15 s. We quantitatively evaluate the quality of these 3-D synthetic seismograms, which are frequency and phase dependent, for each source region using nearby aftershocks, before using them to constrain the focal mechanisms and slip distribution. Case studies show that using a 3-D earth model significantly improves the waveform similarity, agreement in amplitude and arrival time of seismic phases with the observations. The limitations of current 3-D models are still notable, dependent on seismic phases and frequency range. The 3-D synthetic seismograms cannot well match the high frequency (>40 mHz) S wave and (>20 mHz) Rayleigh wave yet. Though the mean time-shifts are close to zero, the standard deviations are notable. Careful calibration using the records of nearby better located earthquakes is still recommended to take full advantage of better waveform similarity due to the use of 3-D models. Our results indicate that it is now feasible to systematically study global large earthquakes using full 3-D earth response in a global scale.
The 1906/01/31 Ecuador-Colombia earthquake (Mw8.4-8.6), is one of the largest megathrust earthquakes that have occurred at the interface of the Nazca and South-American plates. Recently the source process of the earthquake has been re-examined using historical tsunami waveforms, yielding a slip distribution mainly near to the trench, and a smaller moment magnitude than previous estimations. Previous studies have shown that tsunami data can sufficiently constrain the long wavelength characteristics of slip during an earthquake. However to fully understand strong ground motion generation process during earthquakes in a broadband frequency range, the study of shorter wavelength slip, responsible for high frequency ground motion generation, is also necessary. In this study we use the tsunami-slip model of the 1906 earthquake, as well as comprehensive macro-seismic intensity estimations of the earthquake, to elaborate a broadband-wavelength (BB) source model appropriate for the generation of broadband frequency strong ground motions as well as tsunami modeling. Our results show that a BB slip model of the earthquake is able to satisfactorily reproduce observed intensity values as well as tsunami waveforms. Our BB slip model implies an increase in total moment magnitude to a value up to 8.6 respect to the estimation from tsunami data, which represent the contribution of short wavelength slips to seismic radiation. The methodology developed in this study is suitable to study the generation process of high frequency ground motions during large earthquakes.
Erzurum region suffered from various earthquake events and was devastated various times. One of these events was the earthquake with the epicenter at Erzurum Horasan region, in October 30th, 1983. This 7.1 earthquake event affected the villages within Hasankale (Pasinler), Koprukoy, Narman, Senkaya and Tortum districts, and some settlements in Kars Sarikamis. After the disaster, Turkish Government with Turkish Red Crescent were immediately mobilized and rushed to aid the disaster victims. Through various campaigns run at the time, incredible amount of donations and support were received domestically. Furthermore, international institutions and foreign countries supported Turkey and made donations. It is a known fact that this aid significantly contributed to aid the disaster victims. This study is prepared in align with the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs and USA international aid institution USAID records, in which various significant and interesting facts are available regarding foreign aid sent to Turkey. The purpose of this study to fill a gap regarding 1983 Erzurum earthquake, which led significant amount of international aid institution to act. Another purpose of this study is to create an opinion about Turkey's position and significance within the foreign policies of countries that showed interest to the mentioned earthquake.
On August 8, 2017, a M-s 7.0 earthquake occurred 5 km to the west of Jiuzhaigou National Park, causing 25 deaths and injuring 525. The objective of this study was to explore the seismogenic fault of the earthquake and tectonic dynamics of the source rupture. Field investigations, radon activity tests, remote sensing interpretations, and geophysical data analyses were carried out immediately after the earthquake. The Jiuzhaigou earthquake occurred at the intersection of the northern margin of the Minshan uplift belt and the south part of the Wenxian-Maqin fault in the south margin of the West Qinling geosyncline. There are two surface rupture zones trending northwest (NW), which are ground coseismic ruptures caused by concealed earthquake faults. The rupture on the southwest is the structure triggering the earthquake, along the Jiuzhaitiantang-Epicenter-Wuhuahai. The other one on the northeast (Shangsizhai-Zhongcha-Bimang) is a reactivation and extension of the secondary fault trending NW. The source rupture of this earthquake is a strike-slip shear fracture associated with the fault plane trending NW 331 degrees and steeply dipping 75 degrees, which is continuously expanding at both ends. The tectonic dynamics process of the source rupture is that the Jiuzhaigou protrusion is left-lateral sheared along the seismogenic fault in the NW direction. Finally, the Maqin fault and the arc fault system at the top of the Wenxian protrusion will be gradually broken through sometime in far future, as well as earthquake-triggered landslides will be further occurred along the narrow corridor between the seismogenic faults. The research results revealed the basic geological data and tectonic dynamic mechanism in this earthquake.
Seismological, tsunami and geodetic observations have shown that subduction zones are complex systems where the properties of earthquake rupture vary with depth as a result of different pre-stress and frictional conditions. A wealth of earthquakes of different sizes and different source features (e.g. rupture duration) can be generated in subduction zones, including tsunami earthquakes, some of which can produce extreme tsunamigenic events. Here, we offer a geological perspective principally accounting for depth-dependent frictional conditions, while adopting a simplified distribution of on-fault tectonic prestress. We combine a lithology-controlled, depth-dependent experimental friction law with 2D elastodynamic rupture simulations for a Tohoku-like subduction zone cross-section. Subduction zone fault rocks are dominantly incohesive and clay-rich near the surface, transitioning to cohesive and more crystalline at depth. By randomly shifting along fault dip the location of the high shear stress regions (asperities), moderate to great thrust earthquakes and tsunami earthquakes are produced that are quite consistent with seismological, geodetic, and tsunami observations. As an effect of depth-dependent friction in our model, slip is confined to the high stress asperity at depth; near the surface rupture is impeded by the rock-clay transition constraining slip to the clay-rich layer. However, when the high stress asperity is located in the clay-to-crystalline rock transition, great thrust earthquakes can be generated similar to the M-w 9 Tohoku (2011) earthquake. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Some aspects of the seismicity the Crime-Black Sea region are considered on the basis of the catalogued data on earthquakes that have occurred between 1970 and 2012. The complete list of the Crimean earthquakes for this period contains about 2140 events with magnitude ranging from -1.5 to 5.5. Bulletins contain information about compressional and shear waves arrival times regarding nearly 2000 earthquakes. A new approach to the definition of the coordinates of all of the events was applied to re-establish the hypocenters of the catalogued earthquakes. The obtained results indicate that the bulk of the earthquakes' foci in the region are located in the crust. However, some 2.5% of the foci are located at the depths ranging from 50 to 250 km. The new distribution of foci of earthquakes shows the concentration of foci in the form of two inclined branches, the center of which is located under the Yalto-Alushta seismic focal zone. The whole distribution of foci in depth corresponds to the relief of the lithosphere.
The collapse of buildings caused by earthquakes can lead to a large loss of life and property. Rapid assessment of building damage with remote sensing image data can support emergency rescues. However, current studies indicate that only a limited sample set can usually be obtained from remote sensing images immediately following an earthquake. Consequently, the difficulty in preparing sufficient training samples constrains the generalization of the model in the identification of earthquake-damaged buildings. To produce a deep learning network model with strong generalization, this study adjusted four Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) models for extracting damaged building information and compared their performance. A sample dataset of damaged buildings was constructed by using multiple disaster images retrieved from the xBD dataset. Using satellite and aerial remote sensing data obtained after the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake, we examined the geographic and data transferability of the deep network model pre-trained on the xBD dataset. The result shows that the network model pre-trained with samples generated from multiple disaster remote sensing images can extract accurately collapsed building information from satellite remote sensing data. Among the adjusted CNN models tested in the study, the adjusted DenseNet121 was the most robust. Transfer learning solved the problem of poor adaptability of the network model to remote sensing images acquired by different platforms and could identify disaster-damaged buildings properly. These results provide a solution to the rapid extraction of earthquake-damaged building information based on a deep learning network model.
The rupture process of the Wenchuan earthquake demonstrated a transition from thrust-dominated slip to northeastward strike-slip motion along the Longmen Shan Fault Zone. The initial stress has been reported as playing a critical role in this process; however, the stress changes, especially those caused by the significant first subevent of the Wenchuan earthquake are not well understood. Here, we employ a three-dimensional finite element model of the Sichuan-Yunnan region to analyze the stress change caused by the significant first subevent and explore the possible influence on the following ruptures. The results indicate that the auxiliary maximum principal compressive stress (SH) associated with the significant first subevent was horizontal and that the auxiliary stress regime was SH>Sh>Sv, supporting the ongoing regional thrust motion near the southwestern segment of the rupture plane. However, in the northeastern segment, the auxiliary stress regime transitioned to SH>Sv>Sh, demonstrating that the stress changes promoted the transition of the rupture behavior from predominantly thrust motion in the southwest to right-lateral strike-slip motion in the northeastern segment, which was also supported by the dominant shear stress change and the subtle normal stress change along the fault plane in the northeastern segment. In addition, our modeled results also indicate that the orientation of the maximum principal compressive stress changed from SEE to northeastward NEE along the strike of Longmen Shan Fault Zone. This anticlockwise rotation hastened the rupture behavior transition, suggesting that both the initial stress and the stress changes associated with the first subevent jointly controlled the following northeastward rupture of the Mw7.9 Wenchuan earthquake.
The analysis of collaborative contribution networks and hot spots in earthquake research from a global perspective will reveal some rules and trends in this field that will provide references and macroguidance for scientific researchers in the field. With the help of data analysis software Excel and visualization software VOSviewer, this study mainly uses two methods of bibliometric and social network analysis to analyze 66,296 papers on the subject of earthquake collecting in Web of Science in 2009-2018 from multiple perspectives. In the past 10 years, scientific research output in the earthquake field has steadily increased year by year with an evident cross subject. The contribution of co-publishing is much higher than that of single publishing, and it has a higher number of citations and displays. Half of the 50 keywords with the highest frequency of co-occurrence are the continuation of hot spots in 1900-2010. The evolution of hot spots shows that in the average publishing year of 2013.5-2015.0, hot spots have changed from old to new, but few new hot spots have appeared in the past 2 years.
Earthquake source parameters play a fundamental role in evaluating seismic hazard. In many countries, the relatively low accuracy of the earthquake source parameters owing to sparse seismic monitoring networks prevents accurate seismic hazard evaluation. Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) is a useful tool for accurate fault parameter determination of shallow inland earthquakes. We compared the fault parameters (location and rupture geometry) derived from InSAR with those derived from local and global seismic data to assess the credibility of the earthquake catalogues. We set our targets to Iran and Japan, where seismic networks are relatively sparse and dense, respectively, and analysed a total of 10 shallow inland earthquakes. To compare the fault parameters for each studied earthquake, we first created interferograms using InSAR data from multiple satellites and conducted fault model inversions assuming uniform slip on a rectangular finite fault. For the studied Iranian earthquakes, the epicentres of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) catalogue were more consistent with the InSAR-derived fault model compared to those of the local catalogue of the Iranian Seismological Center (IRSC). For the studied Japanese earthquakes, the epicentres of the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) catalogue were more consistent with the InSAR-derived fault model compared to those of the USGS. Assuming that the accuracy of the USGS locations is comparable for the two countries, the JMA catalogue has a higher accuracy than the IRSC catalogue. The difference in the accuracy for the two local catalogues can be explained by the larger azimuthal gaps of the IRSC seismic network. We also showed that the IRSC- and JMA-derived centroids were more consistent with the InSAR-derived fault model compared to those of the Global Centroid Moment Tensor (GCMT) catalogue. The focal mechanism solutions derived from InSAR and seismic CMT solutions were significantly different, highlighting the difficulties in determining the focal mechanism parameters from seismic data, even when the seismic station coverage is dense. As InSAR data can be easily accessed, this study presents a cost-effective method to assess and improve the accuracy of the local earthquake catalogues anywhere in the world.
In 98 km SW of TresPicosin Mexico (15.022 N, 93.899 W, 47.40 km depth) a powerful earthquake of M-w = 8.2 happened at 23:49:19 LT on September 07 (04:49:19 UTC on September 8), 2017. This paper presents the results of Swarm satellites (Alpha, Bravo and Charlie) data analysis around the Mexico earthquake epicenter during the period of 01 April to 15 October 2017. The visual inspection of the time series of 6 parameters measured using electric field instrument, absolute and vector field magnetometers on board each Swarm satellite shows a clear anomaly exactly on the earthquake day. Variations of the electron density and temperature, magnetic scalar and vectors (X, Y, Z) components exceed the limited bounds (M +/- 1.25 x IQR) by several hundred percent. Analysis of the three satellites orbits inside Dobrovolsky's area on earthquake day acknowledges the detected anomalous variations. It should be noted that on earthquake day, the geomagnetic indices D-st, K-p and F10.7 have exceeded the allowed values and even reach the maximum values during the studied time period. Therefore it is difficult to acknowledge the seismicity nature of the detected anomalies on earthquake day. A very interest result is the detection of anomalies in different observables of ionosphere from about 130 days before the earthquake. Since the Swarm is currently the only satellite mission that their data can be used to continuously monitor some of the important parameters of the ionosphere, therefore creating a monitoring system of ionosphere based on the Swarm data as an introduction to an earthquake warning system is proposed. (C) 2018 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We estimated the radiated seismic energy (E-S) of 65 earthquakes located in the south-central region of the Gulf of California. Most of these events occurred along active transform faults that define the Pacific-North America plate boundary and have magnitudes between M3.3 and M5.9. We corrected the spectral records for attenuation using non-parametric S-wave attenuation functions determined with the whole data set. The path effects were isolated from the seismic source using a spectral inversion. We computed radiated seismic energy of the earthquakes by integrating the square velocity source spectrum and estimated their apparent stresses. We found that most events have apparent stress between 3 x 10(-4) and 3 MPa. Model independent estimates of the ratio between seismic energy and moment (E-S/M-0) indicate that this ratio is independent of earthquake size. We conclude that in general the apparent stress is low (sigma(a) < 3 MPa) in the south-central and southern Gulf of California.
The rapid assessment of earthquake-stricken regions immediately after a seismic event is crucial for earthquake relief operations. Since unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) can quickly reach the affected areas and obtain images, they are widely used in the post-earthquake rapid assessment. However, sensor noise and other unavoidable errors can affect the quality of images acquired by sensors attached to the UAVs, which can, in turn, reduce the quality of the assessment. We defined a new problem in the application of multiple UAVs in the rapid assessment of earthquake-stricken regions. The rapid-assessment task-assignment problem (RATAP) was used to construct the assignment plan for multiple UAVs in a rapid-assessment task while considering the weights of potential targets, the endurance of the UAVs, and the sensor errors. The RATAP was formulated as a variant of the team orienteering problem (TOP) called the revisit-allowed TOP with reward probability (RTOP-RP). We then developed an efficient hybrid particle swarm optimization with simulated annealing (HPSO-SA) algorithm, which produced a high-quality solution for the RATAP, and confirmed the effectiveness and rapidity of our algorithm through numerical experiments. Finally, we conducted a case study based on real-world data from the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake in China to demonstrate our approach.
The 2018 February 6 M-w 6.3 Hualien earthquake caused severe localized damage in Hualien City, located 20 km away from the epicentre. The damage was due to strong (>70 cm s(-1)) and sharp (duration similar to 2.5 s) velocity pulses. The observed peak ground-motion velocity in Hualien City symmetrically decays with distance from the nearby Milun fault. Waveforms observed on the opposite sides of the fault show reversed polarity on the vertical and N-S components while the E-W component is almost identical. None of the published finite-fault slip models can explain the spatially highly localized large velocity pulses. In this study, we show that an M-w 5.9 strike-slip subevent on the Milun fault at 2.5 km depth, rupturing from north to south at similar to 0.9Vs speed, combined with site effects caused by surficial layers with low S-wave speed, can explain the velocity pulses observed at the dense strong-motion network stations. This subevent contributes only 25 per cent of the total moment of the 2018 Hualien earthquake, suggesting that a small local slip patch near a metropolis can dominate the local hazard. Our result strongly suggests that seismic hazard assessments should consider large ground-motion variabilities caused by directivity and site effects, as observed in the 2018 Hualien earthquake.
This study investigates the inelastic displacement of structures subjected to earthquake-tsunami loadings. The relative intensity is defined as the ratio of the tsunami force per unit mass to the S-a of the corresponding ground motion. The effects of the hysteretic model, soil condition, post-yield stiffness, damping, and relative intensity on the inelastic displacement ratios are investigated. The results show that, compared to earthquakes alone, earthquake-tsunami loadings can enlarge the inelastic displacement ratio demands, especially for higher relative intensities. A predictive model is developed by considering several parameters, which may be used in the framework of performance-based seismic design.
Purpose Examination of steel moment resisting frames after the 1994 Northridge earthquake showed fatigue cracks presented in the beam-column connections of the frames. These observations indicate that fatigue failure may occur in the steel components of building structures in an earthquake event. To apply the fatigue design approach using the Palmgren-Miner's rule for steel components of the moment resisting frames requires the knowledge regarding the damage index value at fatigue failure. The purpose of this paper is to perform fatigue tests to give the first damage values of steel components subjected to real earthquake-induced loadings. Design/methodology/approach The added-damping-and-stiffness steel plates which are used in building structures for earthquake mitigation were fabricated and tested by constant amplitude, SAC block and earthquake-induced loadings to failure. The earthquake loadings were obtained from the dynamic analysis of a steel frame with the mentioned plates. The load cycles of the SAC block and the calculated earthquake loadings were counted using the rainflow-counting method, and the damage index value of each specimen were calculated using the Palmgren-Miner's rule. Findings Reverse stiffness obtained from cyclic load-displacement loops is a robust and consistent parameter that can be used for determining fatigue failure of tested components. The Palmgren-Miner's damage values at failure, caused by earthquake loadings, are smaller than 1, and in addition, are also smaller than those obtained from the tests of the SAC block loading. The large-amplitude cycles in the earthquake loading produce large damage on the specimens, and intermediate range cycles also produce damage that should not be neglected in the fatigue analysis. Originality/value Today's building design code allows large plastic deformation to occur in steel frames during an earthquake. However, the pre-Northridge earthquake steel frames showed fatigue cracks without the expected substantial plastic deformation at beam flanges. Proposed solutions to this problem were the reduced beam section neglecting the existence of the cracks at beam-column connections. This study considered the fatigue phenomenon in steel frames and provided the first set of tested fatigue damage values for steel components subjected to realistic earthquake loadings, which offered a possible method of dealing with fatigue cracks in the steel components of a building structure.
The seismic gap hypothesis states that fault regions where no large earthquake has recently occurred, are more prone than others to host the next large earthquake. It can lead to the idea of immunity after local disaster which, notwithstanding it sounds reasonable, it has been frequently rejected by objective testing. More generally, the estimate of the occurrence probability of the next big shock on the basis of the time delay from the last earthquake still represents a big challenge. The problem is that this issue cannot be addressed only on the basis of historical catalogs which contain too few well documented big shocks, and decades of future observations appear necessary. On the other hand, recent results have shown that important insights can be obtained from the spatial organization of aftershocks and its relationship to the mainshock slip profile. Here, we address this issue by monitoring the stress evolution together with the occurrence of big shocks and their aftershocks in a model where the fault is described as an elastic interface embedded in a ductile medium. The model reproduces all relevant statistical features of earthquake occurrence and allows us to perform accurate testing of the seismic gap hypothesis and its consequences, particularly on the side of aftershock spatial patterns. We show that large earthquakes do not regularly repeat in time, but it is possible to achieve insights on the time until the next big shock from the percentage of aftershocks occurring inside the mainshock slip contour.
To study the influence of moderate earthquake on the stress field in the seismic source area, 5 moderate earthquakes that occurred in the Yingjiang area from 2008 to 2014 were analyzed. We analyzed several aspects of the crustal stress field in the Yingjiang area to investigate the spatiotemporal impact of those moderate earthquakes on the crustal stress. According to the earthquake occurrence time of the 5 moderate earthquakes, the stress field was inverted within different time periods to investigate the potential temporal change of the stress field. The stress field is inverted separately by using focal mechanism from the southern and northern part to investigate the spatial difference in the stress field. The robustness of temporal and spatial variations in the stress field is examined by random sampling. The results are summarized as follows. First, the 5 moderate earthquakes caused minor disturbances to the stress field in the Yingjiang area, and did not cause significant temporal variations to the regional stress field; Second, during the study period, the crustal stress field in Yingjiang area can be regarded as a spatiotemporal uniform stress field; Third, the crustal stress field in Yingjiang area is in a strike-slip regime, for which the maximum compressive principal stress axis is in the NNE-SSW direction with subhorizontal plunge, the minimum compressive principal stress axis is in the SEE-NWW direction with subhorizontal plunge, and the intermediate principal stress axis is approximately vertical.
A 7.8 Richter-scale magnitude earthquake hit central Nepal in 2015, affecting multiple facets of the economy. This study explores the health impacts of this earthquake on the prevalence of diarrhea, cough, and fever among Nepalese children less than five years old. To this end, I use data from two recent waves of the Demographic Health Survey (2011 and 2016) and employ difference-in-difference as an identification strategy. Results show that the prevalence of diarrhea, cough, and fever was between 3.9 and 6.3 percentage points higher among children in earthquake-affected areas. These results are equivalent to an increase in diarrhea, fever, and cough cases among the children in earthquake-affected districts by 32.2, 35.5, and 25.7 percent, respectively. A drop in the vaccination rate suggests a lack of health care facilities in the earthquake-affected areas that could have contributed to child health problems. A decrease in the availability of clean drinking water in the earthquake-affected regions could also be a mechanism behind the prevalence of the diseases. Disaster-preparedness plans in disaster-prone low-income countries should prioritize child health by making necessary health care services available and ensuring the supply of safe drinking water. (C) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Earthquake prediction is a popular topic among earth scientists; however, this task is challenging and exhibits uncertainty therefore, probability assessment is indispensable in the current period. During the last decades, the volume of seismic data has increased exponentially, adding scalability issues to probability assessment models. Several machine learning methods, such as deep learning, have been applied to large-scale images, video, and text processing; however, they have been rarely utilized in earthquake probability assessment. Therefore, the present research leveraged advances in deep learning techniques to generate scalable earthquake probability mapping. To achieve this objective, this research used a convolutional neural network (CNN). Nine indicators, namely, proximity to faults, fault density, lithology with an amplification factor value, slope angle, elevation, magnitude density, epicenter density, distance from the epicenter, and peak ground acceleration (PGA) density, served as inputs. Meanwhile, 0 and 1 were used as outputs corresponding to non-earthquake and earthquake parameters, respectively. The proposed classification model was tested at the country level on datasets gathered to update the probability map for the Indian subcontinent using statistical measures, such as overall accuracy (OA), F1 score, recall, and precision. The OA values of the model based on the training and testing datasets were 96% and 92%, respectively. The proposed model also achieved precision, recall, and F1 score values of 0.88, 0.99, and 0.93, respectively, for the positive (earthquake) class based on the testing dataset. The model predicted two classes and observed very-high (712,375 km(2)) and high probability (591,240.5 km(2)) areas consisting of 19.8% and 16.43% of the abovementioned zones, respectively. Results indicated that the proposed model is superior to the traditional methods for earthquake probability assessment in terms of accuracy. Aside from facilitating the prediction of the pixel values for probability assessment, the proposed model can also help urban-planners and disaster managers make appropriate decisions regarding future plans and earthquake management.
Kumaon and Garhwal regions are the chief terrains of Uttarakhand Himalaya. The present article simulates the strong ground motion of the 2011 IndoNepal earthquake in the Kumaon region using modified semi empirical technique (MSET). Acceleration records at ten stations in the near field region have been simulated which validates well with actual records and therefore confirms the reliability of MSET. In addition, MSET has been used to simulate strong motion records of future scenario earthquakes (M-w 7.0 and M-w 8.0) in Kumaon region by assuming the earthquake location same as that of 2011 IndoNepal earthquake. Isoacceleration maps are also provided, which reveals more than 400 gal value of PGA at epicentral distances less than 25 kms for an earthquake of magnitude 8.0. The comparison of isoacceleration map of future scenario earthquake (M-w 7.0) in Kumaon region has been done with isoacceleration map of 1991 Uttarkashi earthquake (M-w 6.8) in Garhwal region which suggests distinct attenuation characteristics of these two regions.
The 2017 M-w 7.3 Iran-Iraq earthquake occurred in the seismically less active northern Zagros Mountains. In this study, DInSAR technique is used to derive the surface displacements of the earthquake using Sentinel-1 and ALOS-2 images. One preseismic, three coseismic and a postseismic interferogram are generated. The coseismic interferograms did not show any signs of a surface rupture and indicate a maximum of 80 cm uplift and 50 cm subsidence. The zenith total delay maps derived from the Generic Atmospheric Correction Online Service for InSAR are used to correct tropospheric delays in the interferograms. After correction, an error of 0-2 cm is observed in the line of sight measurements. The preseismic displacement reveals an indication of ground motion before the earthquake occurrence. The postseismic phase indicates afterslip after the earthquake. Localized displacements corresponding to landslides are observed on the mountainous slopes. The 3D displacements reveal similar to 40 cm of surface motion suggesting westward movement and reverse faulting.
Shallow, implosive non-double-couple (NDC) earthquakes have been detected beneath Unzen Volcano, Japan, by a routinely operated seismometer network. Here, we analyze the waveforms from 14 temporary seismic stations around Mt. Fugen (Fugendake) and Heisei-Shinzan Lava Dome, which formed during the 1990-1995 eruptions, to further investigate this shallow seismicity. We also estimate the subsurface electrical resistivity structure using broadband magnetotelluric observations and investigate its relationship to the shallow seismicity. We find that (1) implosive NDC earthquakes occur at the craters that were active during the 1990-1991 eruptions, which are currently buried by the approximately 200-m-thick Heisei-Shinzan Lava Dome; (2) the detected NDC earth-quakes generally possess downward P-wave arrivals, although upward P-wave arrivals are observed at a few seismic stations; (3) the tensile axes of the NDC earthquakes show various slip directions; (4) repeated NDC earthquakes are in some cases detected within 20 s of the initial event; and (5) a high-resistivity zone exists beneath the NDC earthquakes. We conclude that the implosive NDC earthquakes were generated by the collapse of small, randomly oriented, vapor-filled voids at the two buried craters, with active volcanic conduits still present beneath these craters. The shallow DC earthquakes consist of two clusters that are located 2-3 km below the NDC earthquakes. The focal mechanisms of the shallower cluster (approximately 2 km depth) indicate various fault mechanism, whereas those of the deeper cluster (approximately 3 km depth) indicate strike-slip faulting. The top of the shallower cluster corresponds to the base of the conductive zone, which suggests that the DC earth-quakes in the shallower cluster are generated in a zone of high pore pressure that is capped by a hydrothermally altered clay layer. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
On 3 May 2020, an M-L 3.1 earthquake occurred in Haenam, southwestern Korea, in an area devoid of recorded seismicity since instrumental observations began in 1978. Careful examination of the temporal occurrence of seismicity, and the magnitude distribution of the sequence before and after the M-L 3.1 earthquake, indicates typical swarm-like behavior. The earthquake swarm started with an M-L 0.6 event on 26 April 2020, intensified up to 3 May 2020, and abruptly terminated with an M-L 1.0 event on 9 May 2020. The Pusan National University Geophysics Laboratory (PNUGL) deployed a temporary seismic array with eight three-component short-period instruments to monitor the short-lived bursts of seismicity. During the monitoring campaign, we detected > 700 microearthquakes by applying a matched-filter technique to the combined dataset produced by PNUGL, the Korea Meteorological Administration, and the Korea Institute of Ocean Science and Technology. We determined earthquake parameters for 299 earthquakes that were detected at four or more seismic stations. We also determined the focal mechanism solutions of the 10 largest earthquakes in the swarm using first-motion polarities with S/P ratios. The focal mechanism, hypocentral depth, and stress orientation of the largest earthquake in the sequence were also determined using waveform inversions. The distribution of earthquake hypocenters, together with focal mechanism solutions, indicates that the earthquake swarm activated deeply-buried faults (similar to 20 km) oriented either NNE-SSW or WNW-ESE. We also report details of the temporary seismic monitoring network, including the instrumentation, detection of microearthquakes, and variations in event-detection threshold influenced by anthropogenic and natural noise fluctuations. We also discuss the limitations associated with lowering the detection threshold of microearthquakes by increasing the number of seismic stations or by adopting advanced event-detection techniques.
Earthquake-induced liquefaction is typically viewed as an undrained phenomenon with undrained element tests forming the core of knowledge built around it. However, there is evidence to suggest that partial drainage could be taking place during an earthquake. In this paper two dynamic centrifuge tests are presented, in which drainage was restricted for a part of the soil by enclosing it within a chamber, in order to assess its importance. The hypothesis of undrained behaviour was found to be inappropriate for liquefied sand, even within the timescale of an earthquake. Fluid flow during the seismic motion was inevitable. Its effect on pore pressures and shear stress-shear strain response was controlled by the proximity of the boundaries.
The first step toward earthquake forecasting is the identification of variables whose spatio-temporal variation can be connected with pre-seismic crustal deformation. Four periods of campaign Global Positioning System (GPS) observations around the Longmenshan fault zone (LFZ) provide important insights in crustal deformation and deep fault slip before the 2008 M8.0 Wenchuan earthquake. By using TDEFNODE to invert the coupling fraction and dynamic slip deficit rate of the Longmenshan fault plane before the Wenchuan earthquake, we show that under a background of strong coupling, the compressive slip deficit rate perpendicular to fault increased slightly at first and then decreased; a value of similar to 1.5-3.6 mm/a along the central-southern segment from 1999 to 2001 increased to similar to 1.9-3.9 mm/a from 2001 to 2004, and then decreased to similar to 1.1-2.6 mm/a from 2004 to 2007. The dextral slip deficit rate parallel to fault was similar to 6 mm/a from 1999 to 2004, before increasing significantly to similar to 9.5 mm/a from 2004 to 2007, when the compressive slip deficit rate decreased. At the same time, large-scale GPS velocity profiles show that compressive shortening deformation in the Eastern Tibet Block, perpendicular to fault, increased slightly from 2001 to 2004, and then decreased from 2004 to 2007. Meanwhile, the dextral shear deformation parallel to fault near the LFZ increased significantly from 2004 to 2007. These findings are in good agreement with those calculated using repeating earthquake sequences, indicating that the deep slip rate of the Longmenshan fault plane may have accelerated several years before the Wenchuan earthquake. Our results demonstrate that GPS data can record pre-seismic preparatory processes, and have the potential for use in medium-term large earthquake forecasting.
This article provides a comprehensive evaluation of ductile iron (DI) pipeline response to earthquake-induced ground deformation through the results of a large-scale testing program and a fault rupture test on a 150-mm DI pipeline with restrained axial slip joints. The test is used to validate a two-dimensional finite element (FE) model that accounts for soil-pipeline interaction with axial slip, pullout resistance, and rotation of pipe joints. The maximum strike-slip fault offset sustained by push-on, restrained, and restrained axial slip joints is presented as a function of the pipeline/fault crossing angle. DI pipeline performance is controlled by one of the following limit states; tensile, compressive, rotational joint capacity, or local buckling in the pipe barrel. A systematic FE assessment shows that pipelines with restrained axial slip joints accommodate 2-9 and 2-10 times as much fault offset as pipelines with push-on and restrained joints, respectively, for most intersection angles. The results of this work can be used for simplified design and to quantify the relative earthquake performance of different DI pipelines.
Historic urban settings, including traditional marketplaces and bazaars are highly vulnerable to earthquakes, owing to their physical conditions and socioeconomic functionality. Thus, formulation of risk-reduction plans for such areas should be carefully considered as a priority for local officials. In this paper, a new model is proposed to first assess the underlying risk associated with heritage bazaars and then to work out solutions to mitigate the prevailing level of risk. Here, components of seismic risk, i.e., hazard, vulnerability, and response capacity have been categorized into subclasses, bringing more details to the analysis. The importance factor of risk indices is determined by expert opinion, benefiting from relevant past studies. The results could provide more information on the effectiveness of risk reduction interventions at heritage sites. The proposed model has been applied to the historic bazaar of Ardebil in Iran and a number of mitigation measures were suggested according to its seismic risk profile.
The number of fatalities and injured was calculated, using the computer code QLARM and its data set and assuming information about the Irpinia 1980 earthquake became available in near-real-time. The casualties calculated for a point source, an approximate line source and a well-defined line source would have become available about 30 min, 60 min and years after the main shock, respectively. The first estimate would have been satisfactory, indicating the seriousness of the disaster. The subsequent loss estimate after 60 min would have defined the human losses accurately, and the ultimate estimate was most accurate. In 2009, QLARM issued a correct estimate of the number of fatalities within 22 min of the M6.3 L'Aquila main shock. These two results show that the number of casualties and injuries in large and major earthquakes in Italy can be estimated correctly within less than an hour by using QLARM.
Four earthquakes above magnitude 5.0 in Yunnan and Tibet, China occurred from 2010 to 2011. By calculating the tidal-force changes induced by celestial bodies in this region, we found that the earthquakes occurred when tidal-forces continuously grew from low to peak levels and approached the maximum amplitude phase, which indicated a tidal-force that had a trigger or inducing effect of active tectonic earthquakes when the ground stress reached a critical point. At the same time analyzing the abnormal changes of outgoing longwave radiation (OLR), along with the tidal cycle, indicated that the regional distribution of the enhancement region of OLR anomalies was closely related to geologic structure, especially active faults. The OLR radiation anomaly evolved: an initial infrared rise, followed by an enhancement reaching peak, attenuation, and then a return to normal. The entire process was similar to changes observed in rock-breaking process under stress loads. Our investigation showed that the tidal-force changes caused by celestial bodies could trigger an earthquake when tectonic stress reached its critical breaking point, and the OLR anomaly was the radiation signature of the change in seismic tectonic stress. Therefore, the method of combining measurements of the tidal-force changes induced by celestial bodies with those of thermal-anomaly changes has some practical value for detecting the precursor state of impending earthquakes.
Debris scattering is one of the main causes of road/street blockage after earthquakes in dense urban areas. Therefore, the evaluation of debris scattering is crucial for decision makers and for producing an effective emergency response. In this vein, this article presents the following: (1) statistical data concerning the debris extent of collapsed buildings caused by the 2016 Mw 7.0 Kumamoto earthquake in Japan; (2) an investigation of the factors influencing the extent of debris; (3) probability functions for the debris extent; and (4) applications in the evaluation of road networks. To accomplish these tasks, LiDAR data and aerial photos acquired before and after the mainshock (16 April 2016) were used. This valuable dataset gives us the opportunity to accurately quantify the relationship between the debris extent and the geometrical properties of buildings.
BackgroundThe Ecuadorian earthquake in April 16th was the second strongest and deadliest in 2016 worldwide, with approximately one million people affected. In this paper, we analyzed the psychological impact and the relationship between mental health events and various earthquake-related stressors related to the earthquake, 9months after the event.MethodsWe conducted an analytical cross-sectional study, applying an anonymous survey to 316 adolescents (13-19years old) from Muisne, Ecuador. Suicidal tendency, depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress (PTSD) were evaluated via the Child PTSD Symptom Scale (CPSS), Spence Children's Anxiety Scale, Okasha Suicidality Scale, and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) and the adapted seven-questions earthquake-related stressors survey.ResultsWe found a high prevalence of suicidal ideations and behavior, posttraumatic stress, depression and anxiety compared to international studies. Even though adolescents currently living in shelters had higher levels of anxiety, their suicidal tendency was significantly lower than those living in their own or their relatives' home. Finally, the earthquake-related stressors were not associated with suicidality and mental health events, with the exception of economic damage suffered by the family.ConclusionsHigh levels of depression, post-traumatic stress and anxiety among high-school students were found, especially among those who have suffered serious economic damage.The economic impact in their families and high unemployment rates among their parents seems to be related to lack of hope and favorable perspectives for their future, situation that might lead to lead to emotional disturbances and psychological disorders. Although prolonged homelessness experience in shelters may be a stressful occurrence, might also be related with spiritual growth among adolescents, and may work as a protective factor against suicidal ideations and attempts.
Earthquakes represent one of the world's most significant hazards in terms of damage to human and animal life, and property. Earthquakes also cause many other related fatalities and damage to urban structures. This paper presents the forensic investigation of failures induced by the Norcia 2016 earthquake in Italy. The detailed geophysical field investigations were carried out at selected locations in two cities: Rome and Amelia. The places of investigation were 150 km and 90 km, respectively, from the epicenter. A ground penetrating radar (GPR) survey was carried out at the sites to highlight structural failures, and included a partially damaged urban bridge, and the cracked wall of a private house. These failures have been discussed with reference to the field measurements carried out. In both cases, the GPR radargram showed clear lesions along with their geometry and location. This forensic geoscientific analysis highlights the importance of detecting structural damage immediately after a geohazard event to help plan proper interventions, efforts to prevent human losses and help law enforcement to focus their forensic investigations.
State-of-the-art Earthquake Early Warning systems rely on a network of sensors connected to a fusion center in a client-server paradigm. The fusion center runs different algorithms on the whole data set to detect earthquakes. Instead, we propose moving computation to the edge, with detector nodes that probe the environment and process information from nearby probes to detect earthquakes locally. Our approach tolerates multiple node faults and partial network disruption and keeps all data locally, enhancing privacy. This paper describes our proposal's rationale and explains its architecture. We then present an implementation that uses Raspberry, NodeMCU, and the Crowdquake machine learning model.
Anxiety-inducing life events increase the risk of motor vehicle crashes. We test the hypothesis that earthquakes, known to increase anxiety in the population, also increase the incidence of motor vehicle crashes. Our study took place in Oklahoma, USA where wastewater injection resulted in increased induced seismicity between 2010 and 2016. We identified dates of earthquakes >= magnitude 4 (a level felt by most people) with data from the U.S. Geologic Survey. The Oklahoma Highway Safety Office provided county-level monthly vehicle crash counts. We defined high, medium, and low earthquake exposure counties based on the location of earthquake epicenters. Using time-series analyses, we evaluated the association between monthly counts of >= magnitude 4 earthquakes and motor vehicle crashes by exposure group. Earthquakes >= magnitude 4 took place in 38 of 84 study months, and a monthly average of 5813 (SD = 384) crashes occurred between 2010 and 2016. In high-exposure counties, we observed an additional 39.2 motor vehicle crashes per each additional >= magnitude 4 earthquake in the prior month (SE = 11.5). We found no association between the timing of >= magnitude 4 earthquakes and motor vehicle crashes in the medium or low exposure counties. With a binary earthquake exposure variable, we found a 4.6% (SE - 1.4%) increase in motor vehicle crashes in the high exposure counties in the month following 1 or more >= magnitude 4 earthquakes. Consistent with our hypothesis, there was no association between earthquakes of magnitude <= 2.5 and motor vehicle crashes in the high-exposure counties. This novel evidence of an association between induced earthquakes in Oklahoma and motor vehicle crashes warrants future research given the high economic and social costs of such vehicle crashes. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Purpose: The purpose of the study was to identify the psychiatric symptoms that emerged after the earthquake on 24.01.2020 in Sivrice County of Elazig as the epicenter, where a total of 44 people died and over 1500 people were injured. Materials and Methods: The study was conducted 2.5 months after earthquake. Sociodemographic Data Form, Beck Anxiety Scale (BAS), Beck Depression Scale (BDS), Peritraumatic Dissociation Scale (PTDS), DSM-5 Post Traumatic Stress Disorder Check List (PTSDCL) were applied to all participants. Results: A total of 360 people were included in the study, 284 of whom were the victims of the earthquake, and 76 constituted the Control Group. The mean age of the participants was 30.9 +/- 9.9. It was found that 11 earthquake victims (3.87%) lost their relatives in the earthquake. The BAS and BDS scores of the participants did not differ between the groups. The calculated scores of earthquake victims were much higher in PTDS and PTSDCL. Conclusion: Trauma and dissociation scores were increased, and the depression and anxiety levels of the survivors did not increase after the earthquake. Based on our results it is important to identify the psychiatric symptoms of survivors after disasters such as earthquakes, respond to diseases that might be detected quickly, support them psychiatrically-socially in terms of their being able to become used to their loss/new life order and for their psychiatric well-being.
North China is one of the earthquake-prone areas and Zhangjiakou-bohai belt is one of the main seismic tectonic belt in North China There are many cross-faults in the belt and strong earthquakes occur at the intersection of faults. In order to explore the fault behavior and strong seismic mechanism of cross-fault system, we establish 3D finite element models to simulate the sliding activity of faults under the regional tectonic environment.
Purpose Recent earthquake-induced liquefaction events and associated losses have increased researchers' interest into liquefaction risk reduction interventions. To the best of the authors' knowledge, there was no scholarly literature related to an economic appraisal of these risk reduction interventions. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the issues in applying cost-benefit analysis (CBA) principles to the evaluation of technical mitigations to reduce earthquake-induced liquefaction risk. Design/methodology/approach CBA has been substantially used for risk mitigation option appraisal for a number of hazard threats. Previous literature in the form of systematic reviews, individual research and case studies, together with liquefaction risk and loss modelling literature, was used to develop a theoretical model of CBA for earthquake-induced liquefaction mitigation interventions. The model was tested using a scenario in a two-day workshop. Findings Because liquefaction risk reduction techniques are relatively new, there is limited damage modelling and cost data available for use within CBAs. As such end users need to make significant assumptions when linking the results of technical investigations of damage to built-asset performance and probabilistic loss modelling resulting in many potential interventions being not cost-effective for low-impact disasters. This study questions whether a probabilistic approach should really be applied to localised rapid onset events like liquefaction, arguing that a deterministic approach for localised knowledge and context would be a better base for the cost-effectiveness mitigation interventions. Originality/value This paper makes an original contribution to literature through a critical review of CBA approaches applied to disaster mitigation interventions. Further, this paper identifies challenges and limitations of applying probabilistic based CBA models to localised rapid onset disaster events where human losses are minimal and historic data is sparse; challenging researchers to develop new deterministic based approaches that use localised knowledge and context to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of mitigation interventions.
The influence of earthquake disasters on human social life is positively related to the magnitude and intensity of the earthquake, and effectively avoiding casualties and property losses can be attributed to the accurate prediction of earthquakes. In this study, an electromagnetic sensor is investigated to assess earthquakes in advance by collecting earthquake signals. At present, the mainstream earthquake magnitude prediction comprises two methods. On the one hand, most geophysicists or data analysis experts extract a series of basic features from earthquake precursor signals for seismic classification. On the other hand, the obtained data related to earth activities by seismograph or space satellite are directly used in classification networks. This article proposes a CNN and designs a 3D feature-map which can be used to solve the problem of earthquake magnitude classification by combining the advantages of shallow features and high-dimensional information. In addition, noise simulation technology and SMOTE oversampling technology are applied to overcome the problem of seismic data imbalance. The signals collected by electromagnetic sensors are used to evaluate the method proposed in this article. The results show that the method proposed in this paper can classify earthquake magnitudes well.
In ancient China, the government annals provided abundant historical earthquake records, which lasted more than 2000 yr. In some cases, the earthquake damage descriptions from the high-tier government annals are so concise that the specific place names were omitted, even the names of towns where the damage might have actually occurred. The intensity data point (IDP) was assigned to the capital town of the high-tier government, which might lead to large uncertainties in the historical earthquake parameters. A new concept of intensity data area (IDA) is proposed specifically to deal with this issue. An approach on how to convert the IDA to an IDP, based on nonseismological information, is described. In this process, we emphasize the effectiveness of field trips to investigate local features, such as natural environment, population distribution, historical administration zoning, and so forth. As case examples, two historical earthquakes in the Ming Dynasty are analyzed. The documentations of both earthquakes have a common problem, in that some damage was described with the name of the highest-tier local government (Fu); this led to the dispute about the parameter of historical earthquakes. With the proposed method, the IDA for Fu is successfully converted to an IDP at the suitable site. This is the key step to solve the dispute and reduce the parameter uncertainty. Our results have revealed that the parameters of both case earthquakes in the latest edition of the catalog (The Catalog of Chinese Historical Strong Earthquakes (2300 B.C.-A.D. 1911)) were wrong (Min et al., 1995). It is noteworthy that the latest edition of the catalog is currently in common use. To avoid the misuse of the catalog, it is better that the parameters in the catalog be restudied, especially for those labeled with large uncertainties.
The 1556 CE Huaxian earthquake resulted in an estimated 830,000 deaths and caused widespread devastation in the Weihe Basin, China. Seismic intensities from historical accounts yield, via magnitude-intensity relations, a commonly quoted magnitude of 81/4 to 81/2. The maximum recorded shaking was confined to a zone close to the Huashan and Weinan faults, which exhibit fresh scarps up to 7-8 m high. Recent palaeoseismic studies have suggested, however, that the Weinan fault has not ruptured at the surface for several thousand years. Furthermore, the 90-km combined length of the Huashan and Weinan faults is short for an earthquake of magnitude 81/4 to 81/2. We present a detailed analysis of the Weinan fault at one well-preserved site, combining field observations and age constraints from fluvial terraces displaced by faulting, analysis of a high-resolution digital elevation model (DEM), interpretation of the walls of a quarry that cuts through the fault zone, and from a profile of borehole cores across the fault. We find that the fault ruptured within the last similar to 900 years and is likely, along with the Huashan segment, to be the causative fault for the 1556 earthquake. The magnitude remains uncertain, with M-w similar to 7.5 being a plausible estimate given the fault length, and no more than M-w 8.0 if we use the maximum estimates of slip. These estimates are considerably smaller than magnitudes estimated from intensities, with importance in estimating the recurrence intervals between destructive earthquakes and hazard across central China.
Earthquake is one of the natural phenomena that can cause many sudden changes in the environment, which is also one of the topics studied in Earth Science course, especially in Indonesia. This article aims to analyze higher education students' understanding of earthquake-resistant buildings on STEM learning. The researchers designed STEM learning on earthquake units in four main activities, namely problem orientation, inquiry, investigating epicenter location, and designing an earthquake-resistant building. The second-year students of Primary School Prospective Teacher (N=30) participated in this study. The data collection procedure was observation of participants during the learning activity. During the learning process, students analyzed and conceptualized an earthquake in a laboratory activity through an earthquake machine. At the end of the session, students performed better on communicating a map of earthquake epicenter location. This study also showed that students are capable to construct an earthquake-resistant building design with some main considerations, such as angle, foundation, and framing design. The implementation of STEM learning leads to an improved students' understanding on the theory of earthquake, students' mathematical thinking, students' ability to represent earthquake-resistant building model, and real problem-solving ability involving STEM multidiscipline.
The post-earthquake retrofitting and repair process of a building is a key factor in improving its seismic capability. A thorough understanding of retrofitting methods and processes will aid in repairing post-earthquake buildings and improving seismic resilience. This study aims to develop a visualization framework for the post-earthquake retrofitting of buildings which builds models based on building information modeling (BIM) and realizes visualization using augmented reality (AR). First, multi-level representation methods and coding criteria are used to process the models for a damaged member. Then, an information collection template is designed for integrating multi-dimensional information, such as damage information, retrofitting methods, technical solutions, and construction measures. Subsequently, a BIM model is presented in three dimensions (3D) using AR. Finally, the visualization process is tested through experiments, which demonstrate the feasibility of using the framework to visualize the post-earthquake retrofitting of a building.
Three-dimensional (3-D) fault geometry and surface slip are key factors for understanding fault behaviour and earthquake mechanics. Previous studies of the 2008 Yutian earthquake occurred on the northwestern Tibetan Plateau, and are limited by a lack of detailed measurements of fault structures and near-fault motion due to the inaccessibility and extreme weather of the area and severe decorrelation of InSAR. In this paper, we use a very high resolution (VHR) DEM of the 2008 rupture zone extracted from the Pleiades satellite stereo imagery to measure the 3-D fault geometry and on-fault slip. The maximum vertical and horizontal coseismic displacement is 3.6 m and 2.8 m respectively. Despite the overall normal faulting, near-fault reverse vertical motion was observed, ranging from 0.5 m to 1.9 m, caused by the transformation of strike-slip motion into localised shortening due to local fault geometric variations. Measurements of the near-surface dip for the three fault segments (55 degrees, 62 degrees, and 58 degrees) show good consistency, different from previous studies (43 degrees, 60 degrees, and 52 degrees). Joint inversion of InSAR and the near-fault measurements of surface slip also show that the fault geometry does not change much along strike. The local ratio of the cumulative to the coseismic vertical offset recorded on an old alluvial fan and an ice tongue ranges from 1.86 to 2.79, suggesting at least 1-2 historical events occurred here before the 2008 earthquake.
Similar earthquakes that occur in approximately the same location have the potential to reveal the spatio-temporal changes in aseismic slip along plate boundaries. Here we identify similar earthquakes with moderate magnitudes that occurred worldwide between 1989 and 2016 by using seismograms recorded by the Japanese dense seismic network. The slip rate along the plate boundaries estimated from similar earthquakes increased rapidly following M>8 megathrust ruptures and then gradually decayed over periods of similar to 10 years, which correlates with after-slip progressing around the source areas. More than 30 years after large megathrust earthquakes, the slip rate begins to show a gradual increase. This gradual increase in slip rate after the decay may be due to an increase in stress levels that accumulate during tectonic loading. The spatio-temporal characteristics of inter-plate aseismic slip can be used to provide a valuable framework for understanding the long-term evolution of slip-rate during megathrust earthquake cycles.
Earthquakes have become a constant threat in West Sumatra, Indonesia, with the most recent occurring in 2009. This phenomenon has been observed to be due to the inhabitation of people, predominantly the Minangkabau ethnic group in the ring of fire, which potentially causes the megathrust earthquakes and arguably shaped entrepreneurial behaviors. Therefore, the objective of this study was to examine the relationship between earthquake impact, preparedness for megathrust, fear of failure, Small Medium Enterprise (SME) financial performance, and entrepreneurs' wellbeing. Furthermore, the fear of failure was regarded as a construct which significantly shaped the responses of entrepreneurs towards natural disasters. This investigation adopted a quantitative approach, using SmartPLS, to survey 120 small and medium enterprises affected by the 2009 West Sumatra's earthquake. The results showed the post-earthquake impact was positively and significantly related to fear of failure while the relationships between fear of failure, financial performance, and well-being of SME were also established. Moreover, the context of Minangkabau as a completely Muslim society generated arguments regarding religiosity and organizational resilience. These factors were discovered to have influenced entrepreneurship towards making a significant contribution to the body of knowledge in disaster entrepreneurship studies.
On May 22, 2021, an M(s)7. 4 earthquake occurred in Madoi county, Guoluo Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Qinghai Province of China. The epicenter was located in the Bayan Har block in the middle of the Tibetan Plateau. It was another strong earthquake occurred in the Bayan Har block after eight M >= 7 earthquakes occurred around the boundaries of the block in recent 20 years. It is also the largest earthquake in China since the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake. Therefore, the cause of the earthquake and the regional seismic risk deserve special attention. The near-field campaign GNSS observations, combined with continuous GNSS observations, Sentinel-1, and ALOS-2 InSAR observations were used to obtain the fine coseismic deformation field of the Madoi earthquake. The horizontal deformation field derived from GNSS was remarkable. The maximum horizontal displacements of GNSS stations located on both sides of the fault are 0.7 m and -1.2 m, respectively. The deformation was remains 1 cm even at a large distance of 200 km from the epicenter. The InSAR coseismic deformation field of Sentinel-1 and ALOS-2 shows that the earthquake caused a surface rupture of about 160 km long, with the maximum line-of-sight (LOS) deformation of 0.9 m and 1.2 m respectively. Based on the coseismic deformation field derived from GNSS and InSAR interferograms, we inverted for the slip distribution. The result showed that the seismogenic fault consists of a main segment and a secondary segment with the length of 170 km and 20 km, respectively. The main segment dips to the north, and its dip angle is 85 degrees. The average rake angle was 4.36, indicating that the Madoi earthquake was dominated by a left-lateral strike-slip. The dip direction of the secondary segment is opposite to that of the main, with a dip angle of 68, and the average rake angle was -11.84 degrees. The coseismic slip is concentrated at a depth of 0 similar to 15 km. The maximum slip was 4.4 m, at a depth of 6.97 km. The estimated total seismic moment is 1.61 X 10(20) N . m, corresponding to a magnitude of M-w 7. 4. There are 4 asperities ruptured by the earthquake on the main segment, and the Madoi earthquake is an asymmetrically bilateral rupture event. Combined with results from the aftershock relocation, field investigation and tectonic background, we believe that the seismogenic fault is the pre-existing Kunlunshankou-Jiangcuo fault and the rupture mechanism of the secondary fracture in the east is different from the main rupture mechanism. The coseismic Coulomb stress changes shows that the stress on the Maqen segment of the East Kunlun fault was enhanced, implying that there is the possibility of strong earthquakes in this region in the future.
On 24 August 2016, Mw 6.8 earthquake occurred near Chauk, Central Myanmar. This earthquake caused a significant amount of damage over a very large number of historical monuments. After providing a general summary of the regional tectonic settings and seismicity, the observed ground motion has been discussed, and performance of structures in the epicentral area is addressed, focusing on the damage observed in both historical and recent constructions. The observed damage patterns and their extent are analyzed and interpreted in light of observed damage that was found. Lastly, seismic fragility curves of local buildings have been derived.
The nature of deep-crustal, intermediate and deep-focus earthquakes and their relation to metamorphic reactions is a topic of debate. Here we seek to better understand a possible link between the earthquake process and metamorphism by analyzing the mechanism of ongoing deep-crustal earthquakes. We focus on a region in the Himalayas with observed seismicity at depths expected to experience active eclogite-facies metamorphism and dehydration reactions. There are few permanent seismic stations in the region, therefore we use waveform data from a temporary seismic array deployment. We find two earthquakes with magnitude and station coverage adequate for moment tensor inversion. For a given earthquake we estimate its seismic full moment tensors (and magnitude) together with uncertainties using all available waveforms. For the largest earthquake (Mw 3.7) we obtain a best-fitting moment tensor and uncertainties that show a double-couple with a tensional crack component. In the context of geological records that document similar processes, and of laboratory experiments conducted at spatial scales that are 5-6 orders of magnitude smaller, this mechanism may be related to dehydration-driven stress changes triggering slight crack opening, and ambient stresses favoring slip along a fault.
Microwave irradiation transforms the elasticity of solids into plasticity by controlling the dislocation mobility via magnetic interactions within the electron spin pairs on the dislocations. In ionic crystals, microwaves cause dislocations to accelerate and increase their mean free path, thus leading to a release of elastic energy; in covalent crystals, microwaves keep dislocations in place, thereby accumulating elastic energy and increasing the crystal strength. Microwave pumping at resonant Zeeman frequencies (in the magnetic resonance regime) is firm evidence of the concepts of electron spin pairs and of the magnetoplasticity phenomenon itself. However, the dominant contribution to the macroscopic transformation of elastic energy into plastic flow comes from nonresonant microwaves. These can be used to control the mechanics of diamagnetic solids, including, importantly, the earthquake focus. The observed correlation between magnetic events (such as magnetic storms and hydrodynamically generated high-power magnetic pulses) and their seismic and tectonic consequences (earthquake frequency and magnitude and deformations) indicates unambiguously that magnetically controlling the earthquake focus provides a realistic means to prevent a catastrophe by transforming large-magnitude earthquakes into weak, low-magnitude events.
Field measurements of coseismic fault slip often differ from surface slip models derived from satellite geodesy. Quantifying these differences is challenging as many geodetic techniques inadequately image near-fault deformation. We use an iterative closest point algorithm to difference preearthquake and postearthquake terrestrial laser scanning point clouds to reveal centimeter-scale patterns of surface deformation caused by shallow fault slip in the 2016 M-w 6.6 Norcia (Central Italy) earthquake. Terrestrial laser scanning offsets are constant along the fault and match average field measurements. Eighty-four percent of vertical displacement occurs on a discrete fault zone, with 16% of deformation distributed across a narrow zone <4m wide. In contrast, horizontal deformation is distributed over an 8-m-wide zone with approximately 50% of extension accommodated as off-fault deformation (OFD). The centimeter-scale observation of deformation shows that horizontal and vertical coseismic OFD is partitioned-in this case, OFD is dominated by horizontal deformation. Plain Language Summary During an earthquake, slip on a fault plane creates discrete offsets at depth and at the surface. The pattern and size of offsets at the surface can help to understand what happened in the earthquake and also leaves a record of each event in the landscape. This record is used to infer past earthquake activity and forecast the potential likelihood of future earthquakes. We captured a preearthquake image of a fault that caused the 2016 magnitude 6.6 Norcia earthquake in Central Italy. By reimaging the same fault after the earthquake, we measured the pattern of ground movement during the event to millimeter precision to understand in unprecedented detail how much earthquake slip occurs on the fault itself. This uniquely precise map of surface deformation has never been captured before using a terrestrial laser scanner. We find that the vertical motion of the fault is mainly focused on the fault itself. In contrast, the horizontal motion is distributed over an 8-m-wide zone, with approximately 50% of the movement occurring away from the fault-known as off-fault deformation. Our results have implications for how evidence of past earthquakes preserved in the landscape are interpreted for forecasting future seismic hazard.
The capsizing of icebergs calved from marine-terminating glaciers generate horizontal forces on the glacier front, producing long-period seismic signals referred to as glacial earthquakes. These forces can be estimated by broadband seismic inversion, but their interpretation in terms of magnitude and waveform variability is not straightforward. We present a numerical model for fluid drag that can be used to study buoyancy-driven iceberg capsize dynamics and the generated contact forces on a calving face using the finite-element approach. We investigate the sensitivity of the force to drag effects, iceberg geometry, calving style, and initial buoyancy. We show that there is no simple relationship between force amplitude and iceberg volume, and similar force magnitudes can be reached for different iceberg sizes. The force history and spectral content varies with the iceberg attributes. The iceberg aspect ratio primarily controls the capsize dynamics, the force shape, and force frequency, whereas the iceberg height has a stronger impact on the force magnitude. Iceberg hydrostatic imbalance generates contact forces with specific frequency peaks that explain the variability in glacial earthquake dominant frequency. For similar icebergs, top-out and bottom-out events have significantly different capsize dynamics leading to larger top-out forces especially for thin icebergs. For realistic iceberg dimensions, we find contact-force magnitudes that range between 5.6 x 10(11) and 2 x 10(14)kg.m, consistent with seismic observations. This study provides a useful framework for interpreting glacial earthquake sources and estimating the ice mass loss from coupled analysis of seismic signals and modeling results. Plain Language Summary Glacial earthquakes originate from fast-moving outlet glaciers in Greenland. They are produced by kilometer-scale iceberg calving and capsizes, have equivalent magnitudes of 5, and are recorded at several thousands of kilometers from Greenland. These earthquakes were discovered in 2003 and have significantly contributed to the study of seismic signals generated in glaciers to investigate the impact of climate changes on the glacier dynamics. The interpretation of their source characteristic is still not possible as the understanding of the source processes is limited. We develop here a numerical mechanical modeling of iceberg capsize (turn in water against the glacier terminus) to investigate the force responsible for such events. We analyze the variations of the force with iceberg geometry, initial state of buoyant equilibrium and calving style and we relate them to seismic observations. We find that the force amplitude does not simply scale with the iceberg volume. For individual capsize events, the force time evolution and its frequency content are primarily controlled by the iceberg individual dimensions, particularly its width, and the calving mode. This study provides first keys to interpret glacial earthquake sources and estimate the ice mass loss from the seismic signal when coupled to the modeling results.
For an accurate earthquake damage assessment from very high resolution (VHR) images, contextual relations between pixels need to be included in conjunction with spectral information during the classification. To utilize the spatial information in an efficient way, specific patterns representing the earthquake-induced damage should properly be modelled. Attribute Profiles (APs) and Multi Attribute Profiles (MAPs) provide a multi-dimensional representation of an image with a successive implementation of different attribute filters, and they are able to generate the complicated features for a specific pattern. In this study, the APs and the MAPs were used for the first time to extract the additional contextual features from very high resolution satellite image of City of Bam (Iran) acquired eight days after the earthquake. The performance of the morphological attribute features was compared to the those of Haralick's features (HFs) using the k-nn classifier, and the preliminary results showed that the APs and MAPs detect the earthquake damage more accurate than the HFs.
Risk assessment of the trapped personnel location is the important basis for earthquake disaster risk preparation and emergency search and rescue in an earthquake. Using a constructed assessment model, we assessed the risk of people trapped in the collapsed buildings caused by an earthquake in Zhaotong city, Yunnan province, based on km grid data. Results showed that, the highest risk areas of trapped personnel distribution were mainly located in Zhaoyang district, Zhenxiong county and Weixin county. The higher the occupancy population density and the area of collapsed buildings are, the higher the risk level of people trapped. The grid-based assessment of people trapped in earthquakes, can meet the requirements of key search and rescue zone identification and rescue forces allocation in the early stage of earthquake emergency. In future, as the abundant and improvement of basic data, it is possible to provide more information and suggestions for earthquake disaster risk preparation and emergency search and rescue by using grid-based risk assessment of trapped people in earthquakes.
To understand the serviceability aspects of seawalls, it is essential to study the permanent displacements of seawalls that occur during the earthquakes. Studies in the existing literature have concentrated on displacements of retaining walls with dry backfills; to the authors' observation there is no specific analytical investigation devoted to the earthquake-induced displacements of retaining walls with submerged backfills. This paper focuses on sliding displacements of gravity type seawall retaining a submerged backfill under active earth pressure condition during the earthquakes. The threshold seismic acceleration coefficients required for initiation of sliding and the amount of sliding displacement due to seismic loading are calculated by adopting Newmark's sliding block method. One of the prime features of the study is the estimation of seismic inertia forces in the submerged soil and wall applying the modified pseudo-dynamic method. The comparison of the results obtained using the proposed analytical formulation with the existing literature found to be in good agreement. A comprehensive parametric study has been conducted to understand the effects of different parameters such as seismic horizontal and vertical acceleration coefficients, soil and wall friction angles, width of the wall, wall inclination and excess pore water pressure ratio.
The Jinghe M(s)6. 6 earthquake on August 9, 2017 is the largest earthquake in northwest Tianshan in recent years. The earthquake is located within the Kusongmuqike fault zone, and there are several active thrust faults near the epicenter region, including Chahantu fault, Kusongmuqike Frontal fault and Jinghenan fault. Due to the deep source, complicated tectonic deformation and sparse seismic network, it is difficult to directly determine the seismogenic structure of the earthquake based on focal mechanism, aftershock distribution and InSAR observation. In this paper, a method for determining the rupture directivity based on regional seismic waveforms is developed for dip-slip earthquakes. Aftershocks are chosen as reference events, which can be applied as path calibration, and the rupture lengths in the horizontal and depth directions are determined based on the waveform time-shift and Pn-Pg arrival time difference. Then, the rupture plane and rupture length can be inferred. We first invert the point source parameters of the mainshock, then apply the new algorithm to determine the rupture directivity. The results show that the moment magnitude of the mainshock is about 6. 2, the centroid depth is 21 km, the source duration is 5. 5 s, and the two double-coupled planes are 102 degrees/45 degrees/106 degrees (NP1) and 259 degrees/47 degrees/74 degrees (NP2) , respectively. The rupture plane is the south-dipping NP1, and the earthquake ruptured towards southwest and downdip for about 11. 5 km. The rupture range along depth is about 8 km, the horizontal rupture range is about 9 km, and the average rupture speed is about 2. 1 km . s(-1). Furthermore, we combine the seismological results with regional geological data, satellite imagery, etc. , and infer the seismogenic fault of this earthquake is the Jinghenan fault, and the earthquake may only rupture the deeper section of the fault (17 similar to 25 km) without breaking the surface.
The article discusses the controversial topic of the precursor-based earthquake prediction, based on a personal perspective intending to stir the current still waters of the issue after twenty years have passed since the influential debate on earthquake prediction hosted by Nature in 1999. The article challenges the currently dominant pessimistic view on precursor-based earthquake prediction resting on the impossible in principle paradigm. Instead, it suggests that a concept-based innovative research strategy is the key to obtain significant results, i.e., a possible paradigm shift, in this domain. The basic concept underlying such a possible strategy is the precursory fingerprint of individual seismic structures derived from the uniqueness of the structures themselves. The aim is to find as many unique fingerprints as possible for different seismic structures worldwide, covering all earthquake typologies. To achieve this, a multiparameter approach involving all possible sensor types (physical, chemical, and biological) of the highest available sensitivity and artificial intelligence could be used. The findings would then be extrapolated to other similar structures. One key issue is the emplacement location of the sensor array in privileged sensitive Earth surface sites (such as volcanic conduits) where the signal-to-noise ratio is maximized, as suggested in the article. The strategy envisages three stages: experimental phase, validation, and implementation. It inherently could be a costly, multidisciplinary, international, and long-term (i.e., multidecade) endeavor with no guaranteed success, but less adventurous and societally more significant to the currently running and well-funded SETI Project.
On 28 September 2018, an Mw 7.4 earthquake was hit Donggala County, Central Sulawesi Province, Indonesia, triggering tsunami and liquefaction in Palu City and Donggala. Due to this destructive event, a post-earthquake damage map is needed for the first step of evacuation and mitigation plan. This study used Landsat-8 satellite images to classified using an artificial neural network (ANN) and support vector machine (SVM) classifiers. The method used to generate the post-earthquake damage map was decorrelation method which then the result of the damage map will be compared to the field data. The conformity between ANN and SVM result was analyzed and shows the conformity of 85.83%. The result of post-earthquake damage is useful for assessing the distribution of seismic damage and mitigate damage in the future earthquake occurrence.
The spatiotemporal characteristics of shallow slow earthquake activity are linked to the tectonic environments of shallow plate boundaries. In this work, the spatiotemporal variations of shallow very low frequency earthquake (SVLFE) activity along the Nankai Trough were investigated using a cross-correlation analysis. The SVLFEs migrated or spread eastward along the strike direction of the trench during large SVLFE episodes. Migrations and clusters of SVLFEs suggest the occurrence of shallow slow slip events. The observed lateral variations in SVLFE activity patterns reflect the heterogeneous distributions of effective strengths at the shallow plate boundary along the Nankai Trough. Migrations and clusters of SVLFEs tended to be concentrated in the regions surrounding the stress accumulation peaks on the Philippine Sea Plate boundary. The stress accumulated in the transitional regions between high-strength and low-strength zones can be released by shallow slow earthquakes.
The earthquake environmental effects (EEEs) around the epicentral area of the Pohang earthquake (M-w-5.4) that occurred on 15 November 2017 have been collected and classified using the Environmental Seismic Intensity Scale (ESI-07 scale) proposed by the International Union for Quaternary Research (INQUA) focus group. The shallow-focus 15 November Pohang earthquake did not produce any surface rupture, but caused extensive secondary environmental effects and damage to life-line structures. This earthquake was one of the most damaging earthquakes during the instrumental seismic era of the Korean Peninsula. The EEEs included extensive liquefaction, ground cracks, ground settlement, localized rockfall, and variation of the water table. The main objective of this paper was to carry forward a comparative assessment of the Pohang earthquake's intensity based on traditional macroseismic scales and the ESI-07 scale. With that objective, this study will also make a substantial contribution to any future revision of the ESI-07 scale, which mostly comprises case studies from Europe and South America. The comparison of the ESI-07 scale with traditional intensity scales similar to the intensity scale used by the Korean Meteorological Administration for the epicentral areas showed 1-2-degree differences in intensity. Moreover, the ESI scale provided a clearer picture of the intensity around the epicentral area, which is mostly agricultural land with a lack of urban units or buildings. This study urges the integration of the traditional and ESI-07 scale for such small magnitude earthquakes in the Korean Peninsula as well as around the world in future. This will predict seismic intensity more precisely and hence provide a more-effective seismic hazard estimation, particularly in areas of low seismic activity. The present study will also provide a useful and reliable tool for the seismic hazard assessment of similar earthquakes around the study area and land-use planning at a local scale considering the secondary effects.
Tsunami earthquakes generate large tsunamis but only moderate ground shaking. The discrepancy between the magnitude of the surface wave and the resulting tsunami height makes them a serious threat to coastal communities and a problem for tsunami early warning. Although at least 13 tsunami earthquakes took place since 1896, there is little consent on what controls their genesis. It remains unclear if they are tied to distinct subduction-zone structures or geometries or if they can occur along all active margins. To help shed light on the genesis of these unusual earthquakes, I combine marine acoustic data from subduction-zone segments that experienced tsunami earthquakes in order to search for structural similarities in the nature of the subducting oceanic plate. The structural comparison indicates that tsunami earthquakes preferentially occur in regions where the subducting plate is characterized by excess topography which is not blanketed by trench sediment. While subducted, the topographic obstacles likely cause fracturing along their track. This contributes to the development of a thick, structurally and lithological complex, and fragmented plate-boundary shear-zone, which may be prone to fail at a low velocity during a tsunami earthquake. The results suggest that when assessing the risk of a tsunami earthquake, special focus should be placed on the combination of lower-plate topography and trench sediment thickness.
The Sentinel-1 mission comprises two synthetic aperture radar satellites, each with a 12-d orbital repeat, orbiting 6 d apart within a narrow tube. The mission design promises the ability to respond quickly to earthquakes with InSAR, and to facilitate production of interferograms with good interferometric correlation globally. We report on our efforts to study global seismicity using Sentinel-1 Interferometric Wide-Swath data between April 2015 and December 2016. We select 35 potentially detectable terrestrial earthquakes in the range 5.5 <= M-w <= 7.8 on the basis of their locations, depths and magnitudes, and process the first post-event interferogram with the shortest possible time span for each using the ISCE software. We evaluate each interferogram for earthquake deformation signals by visual inspection. We can identify deformation signals attributable to earthquakes in 18 of these interferograms (51 per cent); a further six interferograms (17 per cent) have ambiguous interferometric phase affected by tropospheric noise. 11 events (31 per cent) could not be identified from their interferograms. The majority of these failed detections were due to interferogram decorrelation, particularly apparent for earthquakes that occurred between 15 degrees N and 15 degrees S, where climate conditions promote dense vegetation. The majority of the ambiguous interferograms are affected by tropospheric noise, suggesting that techniques to mitigate such noise could improve detection performance. The largest event we do not detect with Sentinel-1 data is a M(w)7.0 earthquake that occurred in Vanuatu in April 2016; we also fail to detect the 2016 M(w)6.2 Kurayoshi earthquake in one out of two possible 24-d interferograms. We propose these as upper and lower estimates on the magnitude of completeness for earthquakes studied with Sentinel-1 data; to lower the magnitude of completeness we suggest that more frequent (e.g. 6-d) recurrence may be necessary in low latitude areas.
This study investigates various types of seismicity changes that occurred in several regions in and around the Tohoku District, prior to the 2011 M9.0 Tohoku-Oki earthquake. In particular, we focus on the seismicity anomalies that were revealed not only in inland local areas but also in a wide area for several years before the 2008 M7.2 earthquake in the inland Tohoku District. We reconsider these seismicity anomalies in nearly identical regions, which persisted in the extended period up until the M9 mega event. This suggests that the stress changes due to transient slow slips on the Pacific Plate boundary are more likely to be the cause of the wider seismicity changes than the slips beneath the inland earthquake. To confirm the significance, we use the two-stage stationary epidemic-type aftershock sequence model and explore the relationship between seismicity changes and stress rate changes due to slow slip by means of global navigation satellite system geodetic observations.
Since the Ms 8.0 earthquake occurred in Yingxiu, a town in Wenchuan County in Sichuan Province, on May 12, 2008, frequent geological disasters ensued on the land affected by earthquakes in the Longmenshan fault zone have caused a large number of casualties and property losses. Therefore, measuring the disaster resilience of earthquake-stricken areas is the priority for disaster prevention and mitigation science. Based on the in-depth analysis of the hazard of disaster resilience, this paper constructs the compatibility coefficient of industrial and employment structure and per capita GDP growth rate from the socio-economic perspective to measure the disaster resilience. Considering seismic intensity, this paper, with the help of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technology and the topographic complexity index described by the topographic information entropy method, analyses the temporal and spatial change rule of disaster resilience in the heavily damaged area. The results show that the impact of the post-earthquake effect on disaster resilience tends to decrease concussively over time, and the seismic intensity and topographic complexity are important internal factors that restrict the improvement in disaster resilience. This paper will provide a broader application scenario for the concept of resilience, especially in post-earthquake integrated risk management and reconstruction process.
Systematic prediction of earthquakes is regularly performed with step Delta t in a predetermined zone of analysis. At each step, the training sample of target earthquake epicenters is supplemented, and new data about the seismic process is downloaded. The data is processed, converted into grid-based fields, and the machine-learning program calculates a solution using all available data from the starting time of training to the moment t* of the forecast. The result is a map of the alarm zone in which the appearance of the epicenter of the target earthquake is expected in the interval (t*, t* + Delta t]. At the next step, the learning interval is increased by Delta t. Training is based on the method of the minimum area of alarm. The mathematical model of the method makes it possible to select the outliers in the grid-based fields that precede target earthquakes, which may be precursors of earthquakes, to compare these outliers to each other, and then to use similar outliers in the forecast. The model introduces restrictions to the class of prediction decision rules. This helps counterbalance the small number of strong earthquakes used for training. In our previous works, the forecast quality was assessed by the proportion of detected target events at an assigned average value of the alarm zone. This work generalizes the method of the minimum area of alarm to improve another characteristic of forecast quality: the probability that at least one target event occurs in the projected alarm zone. The difference between the methods is that at the moment t* of the forecast, two decisions are made: forecast in time and forecast in space. The first decision determines the possibility of the occurrence of an earthquake epicenter with a target magnitude in the prediction interval. If it is decided that the target event is likely to occur, then a map with an alarm zone is calculated. A target earthquake is predicted if its epicenter falls into the calculated alarm zone. Predictive modeling is carried out for the regions of Kamchatka and California. An earthquake catalog is the initial data for Kamchatka. For the region of California, the data from an earthquake catalog and GPS time series are used. The results have shown quite high estimates of the probability of detecting target events and very low estimates of the probability of forecasting a target event epicenter occurrence in the alarm zone. At the same time, the estimates of the probability of systematic prediction are much higher than those for random fields.
The present study deals with dynamic analysis of arch concrete dams, taking rotational components of earthquakes into account. A modified methodology was used to evaluate the rotational components of the earthquake. The translational components of the earthquake have been used in to obtain the rotational components of the earthquake, based on the intersecting isotropic elastic wave propagation. Two rotational components of Taft, Tabas and San-Fernando earthquakes are evaluated based on the translational components of the earthquakes and considering frequency dependencies of incident angle and wave velocity. Finally, dynamic analyses of Morrow Point Dam are presented to evaluate the effects of combined translational and rotational components on the seismic response of the dam. Various conditions of reservoirs, including full and empty state, are considered in the analyses. Fluid-structure interaction was completely taken into account. It was realized that incorporating rotational components increased the maximum compressive and tensile stresses in both empty and full reservoir analyses. Distribution of maximum tensile stresses is very sensitive to the rotational components of the earthquake. Also, it can be concluded that the segregated effect of the rocking component on the response of concrete dams is more effective than the sole effect of the torsional component.
The southern part of the Ryukyu subduction zone has recorded tsunami events with a recurrence interval of several hundred years. Although their source is controversial, one model suggests that the last 1771 Yaeyama tsunami was caused by a shallow megathrust earthquake with a magnitude of 8. However, the current knowledge on interplate coupling based on recent geodetic data is limited. Here, a time series of Global Navigation Satellite System data from January 2010 to February 2021 was analyzed, including newly installed stations by Kyoto and Kyushu Universities, to obtain the distance changes between stations and vertical secular velocities. The distance changes ranged from 2.4 mm/year in contraction and to 4.7 mm/year in extension, and the vertical velocities exhibited no clear uplift or subsidence, with - 2.4 to 1.1 mm/year. The back slip inversion results indicated a slip deficit of 17-47 mm/year to the south of the Yaeyama Islands. The large slip deficit area is complementarily intervened between the shallower source area of low-frequency earthquakes and the deeper slow slip region, suggesting the spatial heterogeneity of frictional properties along the plate interface. If the large slip deficit area accumulates stress in the same rate since the last 1771 earthquake, it could result in a megathrust event with a moment magnitude greater than 7.5. Because the limited onshore data cannot resolve the slip deficit on the shallow plate interface, seafloor geodetic observations are essential to clarify the detailed spatial distribution of the slip deficit and discuss its earthquake and tsunami potential.
On 21 May 2021, an Mw 6.1 earthquake, causing considerable seismic damage, occurred in Yangbi County, Yunnan Province of China. To better understand the surface deformation pattern, source characteristics, seismic effect on nearby faults, and strong ground motion, we processed the ascending and descending SAR images using the interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR) technique to capture the radar line-of-sight (LOS) directional and 2.5-dimensional deformation. The source model was inverted from the LOS deformation observations. We further analyzed the Coulomb failure stress (CFS) transfer and peak ground acceleration (PGA) simulation based on the preferred source model. The results suggest that the 2021 Yangbi earthquake was dextral faulting with the maximum slip of 0.9 m on an unknown blind shallow fault, and the total geodetic moment was 1.4 x 10(18) Nm (Mw 6.06). Comprehensive analysis of the CFS transfer and geological tectonics suggests that the Dian-Xibei pull-apart basin is still suffering high seismic hazards. The PGA result demonstrates that the seismic intensity of this event reached up to VIII. The entire process from InSAR deformation to source modeling and strong ground motion simulation suggests that the InSAR technique will play an important role in the assessment of earthquake disasters in the case of the shortening of the SAR imaging interval.
The complexity of seismogenesis tantalizes the scientific community for understanding the earthquake process and its underlying mechanisms and consequently, precise earthquake forecasting, although a realistic target, is yet far from being a practice. Therefore, seismic hazard assessment studies are focused on estimating the probabilities of earthquake occurrence. For a more precise representation of seismicity-regarding time, space and magnitude stochastic modeling is engaged. The candidate models deal with either a single fault or fault segment, or a broader area, leading to fault-based or seismicity-based models, respectively. One important factor in stochastic model development is the time scale, depending upon the target earthquakes. In the case of strong earthquakes, the interevent times between successive events are relatively large, whereas, if we are interested in triggering and the probability of an event to occur in a small time increment then a family of short-term models is available. The basic time-dependent models that can be applied toward earthquake forecasting are briefly described in this review paper.
To understand the crust velocity and seismogenic environment of the 23 November 2013 Qianguo, Jilin, M(s)5.8 earthquake and 28 May 2018 Songyuan, Jilin, M(s)5.7 earthquake, we collect the continuous waveform data from CEA permanent seismic stations, NECESSArray portable seismic stations, and WAVESArray portable seismic stations, apply the ambient noise tomographic technique to infer the 3-D S-wave velocity structure of the crust both in the Songyuan and Qianguo earthquake source areas. The results show that these two earthquakes occurred in the relative high-velocity areas, and the source areas are underlain by an obvious low-velocity anomaly with a NNE-SSW orientation and a northward extension. These results suggest that the source areas with relative high velocities are easier to accumulate the energy and generate the earthquakes, whereas the low-velocity anomaly under the source areas may denote the influence of fluids. These fluids influence could be related to the big mantle wedge structure and dynamics due to the deep subduction of the Pacific slab down to the mantle transition zone under NE China including the Qianguo and Songyuan earthquake source areas. In the big mantle wedge structure, owing to the dehydration reaction of the stagnant slab in the mantle transition zone and corner flow, there exists hot and wet mantle upwelling which leads to the lithospheric delamination under the central-to-north Songliao basin, and the mantle fluids can intrude to the mid-lower crust and affect the fault zone. These processes could result in the generation of these two earthquakes.
In this study, Grid Search method has been examined for both its efficiency and capability in solving earthquake location problems even if various situations. For this reason, three simulated (or artificial) seismic networks that pose different station geometries have been investigated effects of the network geometry on the solution. Three cases in which earthquakes occurred in, near. and far from the networks have been also considered in this study. In addition, the effectiveness of the method has been examined in cases where the seismic velocity is incorrect, origin time is misdetermined and data is contained errors. The method has been applied on 54 real earthquakes, which both Pg and Sg phase readings are available, that occurred near the coast of the Eastern Black Sea and have been previously located by the Seismological Centers and obtained results have been compared with the previous results. It has been found that the most earthquake hypocenters determined by this method were close to the locations determined by the classic methods.
On 21 May 2021, an M-w 7.4 earthquake occurred in Maduo County, Qinghai Province, China. A dense network of high-rate (1 Hz) Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) stations around the epicenter provided one of the most complete recordings of GNSS kinematic displacements in Tibet to date. We used these data retrospectively to test a prototype earthquake early warning (EEW) system. Here, we present the results of that test, in which the EEW system archived high-rate GNSS displacement streams, and then used them to track evolving magnitude and slip. The geodetic module in the EEW system issued the first alert 34 s after the earthquake onset. The first alert had a moment magnitude (M-w) of 6.65, which then increased until reaching a stable value (M-w 7.4) 61 s after the earthquake onset. Testing results show good agreement with rapid GNSS displacements and postprocessed GNSS displacements; moreover, the rapid finite-fault inversion is consistent with postinversion magnitude and rupture dimensions. Our findings confirm the viability and usefulness of this EEW system in quasi-real-time magnitude estimation and finite-fault slip inversion.
Stress accumulation in lithosphere may produce fractures and it can cause alteration in electric field influencing magnetic field around earthquake preparation zone especially at low frequency range(ULF). Through the fractures also may release charged particles toward atmosphere and disturbing the electron content (TEC) in ionosphere. This research aims to identify the anomalies that appear before earthquake occurred by using geomagnetic data from MAGDAS (Magnetic Data Acquisition System) station in Manado. The geomagnetic data is analyzed by using polarization of Z/H component method and Single Station Transfer Function (SSTF) method. Meanwhile, total electron content data is obtained from Global Ionospheric Maps (GIM) network and analyzed by using correlation technique. This research detects the emergence of anomalies in geomagnetic field and total electron content from 7 earthquakes occurred in Moluccas sea region with magnitude >= 5 Mw from June 2016 to February 2017. ULF anomaly emerges between 1 day until 26 days before earthquake event and TEC anomaly emerges from 1 day to 19 days before earthquake event. The anomaly emergences are validated by Disturbance Storm Index (DST Index) to confirm that those detected anomalies are not caused by magnetic storm.
Background: Frequent disasters and weak mental health system pose a risk to psychological health in Nepal. In 2015, a massive earthquake of 7.6 magnitude occurred in Nepal, which caused large scale destruction to human life and property. Limited research in children after disasters in Nepal prevent health professionals from implementing new evidence-based trauma treatments. Aim: The study aimed to identify the long term emotional problems experienced by earthquake-affected children in Nepal. The role of gender, severity of exposure, socioeconomic status and type of family in relation to emotional problems were also examined in the selected group. Methods: A purposive sampling was used to select 454 children (4th and 5th standard) from two highly affected wards in Kathmandu Metropolitan City. Information about exposure to the earthquake was collected from children using the Level of Exposure Scale while the parents completed the Nepali version of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ/ 4-17). Results: The effect of exposure to the earthquake was identified in the children even after three years. Boys had higher conduct, hyperactivity-inattention and peer problems while girls had high pro-social behaviour. Emotional problems were greater for those belonging to a lower socio-economic status. Among the variables, gender was a better predictor of emotional problems in earthquake-affected children. Conclusions: Emotional problems such as conduct problems, hyperactivity-inattention, peer problems are present in the earthquake-affected children in Kathmandu. Future researchers and clinicians need to monitor the children affected by the earthquake to recognise vulnerable groups and implement appropriate trauma-focused interventions.
The Geysers geothermal field is well known for being susceptible to dynamic triggering of earthquakes by large distant earthquakes, owing to the introduction of fluids for energy production. Yet, it is unknown if dynamic triggering of earthquakes is 'predictable' or whether dynamic triggering could lead to a potential hazard for energy production. In this paper, our goal is to investigate the characteristics of triggering and the physical conditions that promote triggering to determine whether or not triggering is in anyway foreseeable. We find that, at present, triggering in The Geysers is not easily 'predictable' in terms of when and where based on observable physical conditions. However, triggered earthquake magnitude positively correlates with peak imparted dynamic stress, and larger dynamic stresses tend to trigger sequences similar to mainshock-aftershock sequences. Thus, we may be able to 'predict' what size earthquakes to expect at The Geysers following a large distant earthquake. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Statistical laws such as the Omori and Gutenberg-Richter laws have become one of the most important tools for seismic hazard. The introduction of earthquake networks by Abe and Suzuki has opened a new research field in seismology, which gives an option to view the seismicity as a complex phenomena in an approachable way and may help to improve seismic hazard assesment. This paper intends to make a revision of the earthquake network models proposed in the literature, and to look for open questions by the date which may be of interest for future research.
The buckling failure of reinforced concrete spherical shell structures under the effect of the horizontal component of earthquakes is investigated using the finite element method over a wide range of shell configurations. For this effect, two different loading case scenarios are considered; first, the shell is analyzed under the effect of vertical seismic component alone. Then, the model is reanalyzed under the same loading conditions plus the horizontal earthquake component, taking into account two different horizontal-to-vertical earthquake spectral ratios. It is concluded that including the horizontal component of earthquake can result in a slight reduction in the buckling capacity of this type of structures, the impact of which is highly influenced by the horizontal-to-vertical earthquake spectral ratio and shell geometry. It is also observed that the formulation adopted by ACI 372R slightly overestimates the buckling capacity of spherical shells, especially when horizontal seismic effects are included.
The 19 September 2017 Puebla-Morelos earthquake provides a unique opportunity to (a) study the effectiveness of seismic rehabilitation methods implemented in Mexico City after 1985 and (b) collect large amounts of data on current building rehabilitation practices. This article presents and discusses seismic rehabilitation efforts conducted on concrete buildings after the 1985 and 2017 earthquakes. Building damage and vulnerabilities, code provisions for rehabilitation, and common repair and retrofit techniques used in these two periods of time are summarized. The performance of four buildings rehabilitated after 1985 is examined based on results from field investigations conducted after the 2017 event. These rehabilitations were effective in improving the performance of these buildings according to observed damages and estimated shaking intensities. To allow a more systematic assessment of seismic rehabilitations in future earthquakes, an inventory of rehabilitated buildings in Mexico City is currently under development. Preliminary data obtained from this inventory effort are presented and discussed.
The evaluation of dynamic stability of slopes and the exploration of instability mechanisms have always been hot issues in the field of seismic engineering and geotechnical engineering. In the earthquake zone, the slope is unstable after the earthquake. The earthquake is the most important and direct factor that causes the slope damage, but it is not the only factor. Whether the slope will be destroyed under the action of an earthquake is not only related to the magnitude, intensity, and intensity of the earthquake, but also related to various factors such as the environment of the slope and its own structural form. Therefore, in order to determine the dynamic stability of a slope under the action of an earthquake, it is necessary to clarify all the factors influencing the slope instability, and to make a comprehensive analysis based on a variety of influencing factors to scientifically determine its instability mechanism. In this paper, the yield ratio and void ratio reduction coefficients are introduced to describe the critical state and yield characteristics of the soil-rock mixture when the block content and action are different, and an elastoplastic constitutive model of the soil-rock mixture is established. Using the FLAC3D numerical calculation model, the stress field, displacement field, plastic zone and shear strain increment distribution law of the slope under the action of earthquake are analyzed, and the failure mechanism of slope under the action of seismic load is studied. The results show that under the action of a very small earthquake load, the gravel-soil slope will be unstable, and the damage degree of the slope will increase with the increase of the earthquake horizontal acceleration; the gravel-soil slope is mainly affected by the earthquake. Only a small area of tensile stress occurs at the top of the slope, where tension failure occurs; while at the bottom of the gravel soil slope, due to the change of the principal stress direction, the soil is in a two-way compression state.
We investigated the activities of very small (-5.10 <= M-w <= -2.35) repeating earthquakes that occurred during 14 months on a geological fault at a 1 km depth in the Cooke 4 gold mine in South Africa. Out of 4214 acoustic emissions occurring on the fault, 1785 (42.36% of the total) were identified as repeaters on the basis of the waveform similarity and the proximity of hypocenters. Quite a few large groups, having up to 57 members, were recognized. Activities of some groups certainly continued throughout the 14 months, but we also found some repeater groups that newly emerged or disappeared during this period. Both types often coexisted within a distance as small as similar to 0.5 m, within which background fault creep should be coherent. Some disappearing groups showed a decrease in the event magnitude with time. These temporal changes of repeater activities may imply the formation and dissipation of topographical asperity contacts on the fault. Our results suggest that ultra-sensitive observation of acoustic emissions can reveal the physical evolution of asperities.
There are several national and international online earthquake catalogs publishing the focal parameters of earthquakes in Turkey and surroundings. While international seismological centers provide global earthquake catalogs with data from around the world, as well as their own solutions, local and regional seismic centers are confined to publish regional catalogs with solutions derived exclusively from their own data. In this study, we investigate the consistency of the focal parameters provided by national and international agencies for a large number of earthquakes which occurred in and around Turkey during the period 2000-2017. Agencies that analyze earthquakes in this region on a regular basis and whose data are used in this study are the Bogazici University-Kandilli Observatory and Earthquake Research Institution (BOUN-KOERI; KOERI from now on) and the Disaster and Emergency Management Authority, Earthquake Research Directorate (AFAD-ERD; AFAD from now on) as well as one of the leading international seismological agencies, the International Seismological Centre (ISC). The study area covers the region bounded by the coordinates 35-42 degrees N and 26-45 degrees E. Estimations of origin times, epicentral coordinates, focal depths, and magnitudes, as well as their uncertainties, provided by AFAD, KOERI, and ISC, are examined. The magnitude values of these three centers are homogenized and checked against each other. Furthermore, the completeness (with regard to magnitude) of each of the tested catalogs is defined, as well as its variation in space and with time. Finally, it is shown that the locations provided by KOERI and AFAD are similar to each other, while ISC solutions are closer to those of KOERI.
Analyzing the uncertainties associated with disaster occurrences is critical to make effective disaster preparedness plans. In this study, we focus on pre-positioning emergency supplies for earthquake preparedness. We present a new method to compute earthquake likelihood and the number of the affected people. Our approach utilizes forecasting methods from the earthquake engineering literature, and avoids using probabilistic scenarios to represent the uncertainties related to earthquake occurrences. We validate the proposed technique by using historical earthquake data from Turkey, a country under significant earth-quake risk. We also present a case study that illustrates the implementation of our method to solve the inventory allocation problem of the Turkish Red Crescent. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
3D P-wave velocity structure in crust and uppermost mantle in and around Gulang earthquake source region was studied by double-difference tomography with the direct use of both absolute arrival times and the more accurate differential travel times. These data come from the earthquakes catalog records of totally 4592 events recorded by 125 stations from the digital seismic network in Gansu and its adjacent seismic network during the years of 2000 to 2015. The result shows that shallow P-wave velocity structure has a good correlation with surface geology. Huangcheng-Shuangta fault zone is imaged as a high P-wave velocity region in 0 similar to 6 km depth, while it is imaged as a low P-wave velocity region in 6 similar to 15 km depth. It is converted into a high velocity anomaly beneath 15 km again. There is a significant low-velocity anomaly with about 200 km(2) size where the first rupture generated as the great earthquake occurred beneath the source region with a 10 similar to 20 km depth. It corresponds closely to the location of mainshock. The mainshock areas consists of metamorphic sandstones, quartzite and granite. These kinds of rock correspond to obvious high-velocity anomalies that are beneficial to the accumulation of energy. The Wuwei basin is characterized by its obvious low velocity anomaly above the depth of 20 km and high-velocity anomalies under the depth of 25 km as a whole, which can reflect the stability of the block. Its front extends to Lenglongling uplift belt and reaches to the west of Wuwei-Gulang fault zone in the lower crust and upper mantle with depth increasing. It is showed that the eastern segment and western segment have different mechanics property. The motion of the western segment is a thrust fault pattern, and earthquakes occurred in the footwall. Nevertheless, the motion of the eastern segment is a partial tension style, and earthquakes mainly occurred in the hanging wall of the fault. Besides, we found a conjugate fault that located at the central of Huangcheng-Shuangta fault zone and is perpendicular to the main rupture. It is right lateral strike-slip faulting with minor tension component with high angle, that we obtained from inversion of fault parameter based on the distribution of small earthquakes.
On April 25th, 2015, the moment magnitude (M-w) 7. 8 Gorkha earthquake, Nepal occurred in Himalaya orogenic belt, which seems insufficient to release the accumulated energy as suggested previously. The following seismic risk assessments are mostly based on the two dimensional or pseudo-three dimensional inversions of tectonic deformation. Here we analyze the relationship between the main shock and biggest aftershock of the 2015 Gorkha earthquake sequence, and its unevenness in time and space. Combining focal mechanism solutions, crustal velocity structure, relocated aftershocks, and inversion results from InSAR, we construct a three dimensional model which changes along both the strike and dip directions of the Main Himalayan Thrust. The finite element method with nonlinear friction is used to calculate the fault behavior and block deformation in one earthquake recurrence period. Comparison between the forward calculation results and the co-seismic deformation observed from InSAR, and co-seismic slip inverted from deformation observations, and time-space evolution of historical earthquakes revealed that the three dimension model is close to the reality. The results suggest two potential seismic risk regions in the future: a big earthquake might be located in the east of the 1934 Bihar-Nepal M-w similar to 8. 1 earthquake, and a moderate to major event might take place to the southeast of the aftershock M(w)7. 3 earthquake.
We apply a template matching detection to report a swarm-like foreshock sequence concentrated near the northern edge of the strike-slip fault rupture of the 25 September 2019 MW 6.5 Ambon earthquake in Seram, Indonesia. The template matching helps to identify small earthquakes that the routine earthquake catalog has not listed. The magnitude of completeness decreases from 3.1 (Badan Meteorologi Klimatologi dan Geofisika - BMKG catalog) to 1.7 in the improved catalog. We detect 3201 foreshocks which are tens fold the number of foreshocks in the routine earthquake catalog. We did not find a significant temporal variation in the b-value of the frequency-magnitude distribution (FMD) of the foreshock seismicity prior to initiating the dynamic rupture of the mainshock. The foreshocks around the mainshock hypocenter start to be busy since the beginning of July 2019 and continuously accelerates, with a minor variation in the seismicity rates and b-values. Although possible, we did not suggest that the stochastic cascade effect plays a role in the mainshock nucleation process. We discuss and highlight the possibility of fluid triggering to explain the high b-values of foreshock seismicity.
By using a questionnaire survey and performing a case study in the Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, this study examined the similarities and differences between the perceptions of local practitioners and the perceptions of experts regarding the priority of the factors affecting earthquake emergency response and rescue at the county level in China. The results show that the perceptions of the most and the least important factors are similar between the two groups, except for the factors that affect special abilities. However, one first-level factor, i.e., environmental conditions, and 16 second-level factors, e.g., influence of ethnic cultures, professional rescue teams, GDP level and historical earthquake disaster experience, significantly differed. The local realities of the natural geography, socioeconomic conditions (e.g., economic level, education and ethnic), earthquake experiences and knowledge form the perception of local practitioners, whereas the experts' perceptions are more consistent with their social role, emergency experiences and knowledge, especially in disaster-prone areas, influencing the differences between the two groups. Suggestions regarding the incorporation local perceptions into the development of local emergency capabilities rather than merely following the perception of experts are discussed.
Strong earthquakes are a major cause of natural disasters and may also be related to heavy rainfall events. Both phenomena have received considerable attention in seismology and meteorology, two relatively independent disciplines, but we do not yet know whether there is a connection between them. We investigated the characteristics of daily rainfall over seismic areas in China. Our statistical analyses showed that there is a strong correlation between strong earthquakes (Ms >= 6.0) and rainfall over the seismic area, with 74.9% of earthquakes in China accompanied by seismic epicenter rainfall and 86.6% by seismic area rainfall. The statistics also showed that the daily precipitation over the seismic area, including the epicenter, was mainly light rain, with only a few instances of torrential or storm rain, with 80% of the rainfall events lasting two or more days. The maximum cumulative precipitation corresponded well with the strong earthquakes occurring over steep terrain, such as the Taiwan central mountains and the eastern Tibetan Plateau. The earthquake area rainfall had a higher frequency than the 30-years climatological average and was dominated by earthquake events in the wet season. The WRF-ARW numerical simulation of seismic local rainfall during the devastating Ms 8.0 Wenchuan earthquake in May 2008 showed that the geothermal heat from the earthquake strengthened the local convergence of moisture and vertical motion near the epicenter and the upward transport of the sensible heat flux, which favored seismic rainfall. The results of this study show that rainfall in the seismic area is closely related to strong earthquakes and can be triggered and enhanced by geothermal heat.
The May 11th 2011, Lorca earthquake in Southeastern Spain was a moderate magnitude event (M-w 5.1) yet it caused nine fatalities, more than 300 injuries and more than 462 million euros in economic loses. Peak ground accelerations as well as response spectral ordinates far exceed expected values from various ground motion prediction models. In particular, spectral ordinates computed from recorded ground motions significantly exceed those in current Spanish probabilistic seismic hazard models, as well as those in the Spanish and European building codes. The objective of this paper is to assess directivity effects on ground motions recorded during the 2011 Lorca earthquake, and to evaluate the significance of these effects in earthquake resistant design on moderate seismic regions. In the first part of this paper, we study the likelihood of the presence of a directivity pulse, by conducting a comparison of different parameters of recorded ground motions to analytical pulses. In the second part, we relate the recorded ground motion and its inelastic displacement spectra to some recent statistical models that try to capture the displacement demand features of earthquakes presenting directivity-pulse characteristics. It is shown that simple analytical pulses are capable of reproducing very well pulse-type near-fault ground motions recorded during the event. It is concluded that directivity effects played a major role in the large impact caused by this relatively small event. Furthermore, directivity effects which are typically ignored, both in probabilistic seismic hazard analysis and in most building codes, may lead to important underestimations of ground motions.
The present paper develops a methodology based on fuzzy logic for post-earthquake assessment of buildings damage. It derives the global building damage level from that reported information by trained technical staff, after in-situ visual inspection of the main parameters, i.e., the Structural components and the Non-structural components. For illustration purposes, thousands of evaluation forms from post-earthquake survey following the 2003 Boumerdes, Algeria, earthquake (Mw = 6.8) have been collected. According to the standard evaluation form, each component's damage is ranked from D-1 (No damage) up to D-5 (Collapse). The aim is then to derive the global damage level of buildings which should also rank from D-1 to D-5. The paper investigates the effect of the number and weights of fuzzy rules to relate each components' damage level to the global damage level using a single-antecedent weighted fuzzy rule. It investigates also the effect of membership functions values so that it is possible to consider one damage level as the most dominant with highest membership value whereas the rest damage levels are still considered although with lower influence. A genetic algorithm is adopted to optimize the rule weights associated to the components' damage levels. The collected database which covers more than 27,000 buildings is used to train and validate the procedure. The theoretical prediction, obtained by automatic processing of the evaluation form for each building, is compared to the global damage (observed damage) identified by inspectors. Results show that the theoretically-based evaluation Is in accordance with the observed values for 90% of the investigated buildings.
This paper aimed to investigate emotional distress related to hazards (EDH) considering appraisals and personal resources from cognitive appraisal theory in a sample of Bucharest inhabitants periodically exposed to earthquakes (EQ). The sample consisted of 336 respondents (M = 33.71 years old, SD = 13.71, 64.6% females). The hierarchical regression model revealed that discomfort of living space, a personal resource, was the strongest predictor of EDH (beta = .18, t(313) = 3.09, p < .01), closely followed by appraisals or risk perception variables: hazards anticipation (beta = .17, t(316) = 2.11, p < .05) and negative EQ consequences (beta = .13, t(316) = 2.28, p < .05). The overall model explained 17% of the variance of EDH. This study shows that the cognitive appraisal theory can be successfully used to explain the EDH of citizens living in an earthquake-prone city. Also, it emphasizes that earthquake-related factors can be relevant when discussing EDH levels of people in cities experiencing recurrent earthquakes.
This paper presents a new method for earthquake early warning alert that uses a smart sampling technique that expose the signal information in a way that it is simpler to infer knowledge. The objective is to estimate, from the first few seconds of the P wave, if the incoming earthquake is destructive or not. The proposed method is described and compared to conventional approaches. Performance results for real seismic data are shown highlighting the results for earthquakes of different magnitudes. Preliminary results are excellent for inferring damage based on the approach of a single seismic station.
Reported aftershock durations, earthquake effects, and other observations from the large 14 December 1872 earthquake in central Washington are consistent with an epicenter near Entiat, Washington. Aftershocks were reported for more than 3 months only near Entiat. Modal intensity data described in this article are consistent with an Entiat area epicenter, where the largest modified Mercalli intensities, VIII, were assigned between Lake Chelan and Wenatchee. Although ground failures and water effects were widespread, there is a concentration of these features along the Columbia River and its tributaries in the Entiat area. Assuming linear ray paths, misfits from 23 reports of the directions of horizontal shaking have a local minima at Entiat, assuming the reports are describing surface waves, but the region having comparable misfit is large. Broadband seismograms recorded for comparable ray paths provide insight into the reasons why possible S-P times estimated from felt reports at two locations are several seconds too small to be consistent with an Entiat area epicenter.
Ruptures of the largest earthquakes can last between a few seconds and several minutes. An early assessment of the final earthquake size is essential for early warning systems. However, it is still unclear when in the rupture history this final size can be predicted. Here we introduce a probabilistic view of rupture evolution - how likely is the event to become large - allowing for a clear and well-founded answer with implications for earthquake physics and early warning. We apply our approach to real time magnitude estimation based on either moment rate functions or broadband teleseismic P arrivals. In both cases, we find strong and principled evidence against early rupture predictability because differentiation between differently sized ruptures only occurs once half of the rupture has been observed. Even then, it is impossible to foresee future asperities. Our results hint toward a universal initiation behavior for small and large ruptures.
On January 24 at 8.55p.m, a major earthquake of moment magnitude M-w = 6.8 struck the Sivrice district of Elazig, located in the southwest of the Eastern Anatolia region of Turkey. A total of 7429 buildings were severely damaged or collapsed. Unreinforced masonry buildings still represent a significant part of the residential building stock in rural surroundings of the Eastern Anatolia region. Unfortunately, most of the masonry buildings near to epicenter were found to have collapsed or suffered severe damage. This study provides an evolution of seismological characteristics of the earthquake, including recorded accelerograms and acceleration response spectra. Case studies of damaged masonry buildings and failure or collapse mechanisms are also examined. It is concluded that almost all the damaged buildings had not been designed or constructed in accordance with contemporary Turkish earthquake codes.
Landward increase of surface velocity has been found for segments adjacent along-strike to megathrust faults after the 2003 Tokachi-oki and the 2011 Tohoku-oki earthquakes, NE Japan. A similar increase of landward velocities was reported for the segments to the north of the rupture of the 2010 Maule earthquake, Chile. We utilize available GNSS data to find such changes for six megathrust earthquakes in four subduction zones, including NE Japan, central and northern Chile, Sumatra, and Mexico to investigate their common features. Our study showed that such increase, ranging from a few mm/yr to similar to 1 cm/yr, appeared in adjacent segments following the 2014 Iquique (Chile), the 2007 Bengkulu (Sumatra), and the 2012 Oaxaca (Mexico) earthquakes in addition to the three cases. The region of the increased landward movements extends with spatial decay and reach the distance comparable to the along-strike fault length. On the other hand, the temporal decay of the increased velocity is not clear at present. The degree of increase seems to depend on the earthquake magnitude, and possibly scales with the average fault slip in the earthquake. This is consistent with the simple two-dimensional model proposed earlier to attribute the phenomenon to the enhanced coupling caused by accelerated subduction. However, these data are not strong enough to rule out other possibilities.
For the past 30 years, the M8 medium-term earthquake prediction algorithm has been applied globally every six months in real time for identifying the areas where the world's strongest earthquakes are most likely to occur. As of now, the statistics of the outcomes observed in the Global Test with a confidence exceeding 99% indicates fairly high efficiency of the forecasts based on the M8 algorithm and those based on its combination with the MSc algorithm which more accurately localizes the focal zone of the expected earthquake. Thus, the null hypothesis of random occurrence in seismically active areas is rejected with seismologically certainty at least for the world's strongest earthquakes in the magnitude ranges 8.0+ and 7.5+. The results of this experimental testing indirectly confirm the predictability of the strong earthquakes and the existence of both the common dynamic characteristics and diverse behavior during phase transitions in a complex hierarchical nonlinear fault-and-block system in the Earth's lithosphere.
The 2011 Tohoku-Oki offshore subduction earthquake (M-w 9.0) triggered many normal-type earthquakes inland in northeastern Japan. Among these were two very similar normal-faulting earthquakes in 2011 (M-w 5.8) and 2016 (M-w 5.9), which created surface ruptures along the newly named Mochiyama fault within the southern Abukuma Mountains, northeastern Japan, where no active faults had been previously mapped by interpretation of aerial photographs. We conducted field surveys in this area immediately after both earthquakes, and we performed trench excavations and observations of fault fracture zones after the 2016 event. These activities were complemented by an interferometric synthetic aperture radar analysis that mapped the areas of deformation and locations of surface discontinuities for both events. The combined results document the coseismic behavior of the Mochiyama fault during both events. Subtle tectonic geomorphic features associated with the fault were evident in a lidar digital elevation model of the area, and layered structures of gouge were documented in the field. These lines of evidence indicate repeated activity at shallow crustal levels and the possibility of Quaternary activity. In addition, our trench excavations revealed at least one faulting event before 2011. Our comparison of paleoseismic records on this and two other normal faults in the Abukuma Mountains suggests that great earthquakes in the Japan Trench supercycle of 500-700 years do not consistently trigger ruptures on these faults, and the case of 2011, in which the Tohoku-Oki megathrust earthquake triggered all three faults, is a rare occurrence.
In order to study the influence of the East Kunlun Fault activity on the Jiuzhaigou M(s)7.0 earthquake which occurred on August 8 2017, we calculate the block motions, slip rates and slip deficits of the East Kunlun Fault during two periods of 1999-2007 and 2013-2017 based on Block-Dislocation Model and constrained by the GPS velocity fields data. And then, we study the maximum shear strain rate field on the eastern edge of the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau and interseismic Coulomb stress accumulation rate in the source area of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake. We find that the left-lateral strike-slip rate of the mid-west region of East Kunlun Fault is higher than that of east region. The overall trend of slip rate of East Kunlun Fault is progressively decreasing from west towards east with a clear gradient. In these two periods, the azimuth angles of the rigid motion of the Aba block are 164.1 degrees and 164.3 degrees respectively (the clockwise deflection is 0.2 degrees) and the movement rate increases from 12.22 mm.a(-1) to 15.96 mm.a(-1). The strike-slip rate of the East Kunlun Fault increases, especially the rate of the western section increases by about 1.2 +/- 10.3 mm.a(-1) and the coupling fractions in the eastern section of the East Kunlun Fault increase and deepen after 2013, which probably are affected by 2008 Wenchuan earthquake and 2013 Lushan earthquake. The accumulative rate of interseismic Coulomb stress in the Jiuzhaigou earthquake region during 2013-2017 is three times as big as that during 1999-2007 and the maximum shear strain rate is also significantly higher during 2013-2017. This study shows that as the Longmenshan Fault gradually unlocks, the Aba block is becoming more and more active and the slip rate of the East Kunlun Fault increases, which lead to the increasing of the interseismic Coulomb stress accumulation rate in the Jiuzhaigou earthquake area and accelerating the generation of the Jiuzhaigou earthquake.
Crisis produced by earthquake events are often dramatic for their severity and their impact on population. Damages may extend from buildings to Critical Infrastructures. Predicting the functionality of the latter after an event is relevant for the design of contingency plans, as availability of primary services empowers the action of first responders in the aftermath management. This work deploys a complex earthquake simulator (CIPCast-ES) which allows to explore a realistic earthquake event occurring in the city of Florence (Italy) by predicting disruptions on buildings and Critical Infrastructure and by designing a reliable scenario, accounting for roads obstruction due to building collapse, to be used to design an efficient contingency plan.
In the Bay Area of San Francisco, the earthquake contours are not easy to define: seismology is still a relatively recent science, and controversies around methods to evaluate the earthquake risk are constant. In this context, the invitation to think about the modes of citizen science is an opportunity to reflect on the modality of hybridized scientific practices as well as the process by which the plurality and complexity of the earthquake characteristics can be articulated, and sometime reconciled. Looking at different existences of the earthquake risk, the paper investigates different assemblages that question the clear-cut distinction between citizen science and science. I'll situate the question of the mode of citizen science within the larger framework of interdisciplinarity knowledge infrastructures and the work on 'mode of existence' initiated by Bruno Latour and Isabelle Stengers (2009). Expanding our understanding with regard to how CS is performed opens the possibility of reconsidering the specific types of assemblages and infrastructures from which these modes emerge and on their distinct trajectories. It is also an invitation to make visible the integration processes, the communities, and the imaginations that make science.
High seismicity rates in eastern Indonesia occur due to the complex interaction of several tectonic plates which resulted in two deadly, destructive earthquake sequences that occurred in Lombok Island and the city of Palu, Sulawesi in 2018. The first sequence began in July with an M-w 6.4 event near Lombok, culminating in an M-w 7.0 event 8 d later. This was then followed by a nearby M-w 6.9 event 12 d later. Approximately 1000 km to the northeast, a separate sequence began several weeks later near Palu where an M-w 7.5 event occurred that triggered a tsunami. In this study, we present hypocentre relocations for both earthquake sequences as well as all other regional earthquakes in eastern Indonesia. The relocations were performed using a teleseismic double-difference relocation method and arrival times for P and S waves from stations at local, regional, and teleseismic distances. The catalogue and phase data were taken from the Agency for Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics (BMKG) of Indonesia and the International Seismological Centre (ISC) for the period of April 2009 through November 2018. The relocated catalogue provides an improved view of seismicity in eastern Indonesia over the study period, sharpening locations and interpretations of seismogenic features throughout the region. In the Lombok area, the relocated earthquakes clearly show a backarc thrust to the north of the Sunda-Banda Arc transition zone. The relocated aftershocks show that the destructive M-w 7.0 and M-w 6.9 earthquakes of the Lombok sequence ruptured two different regions: The M-w 7.0 earthquake propagated westward, whereas the M-w 6.9 earthquake propagated eastward. The entire sequence of Lombok earthquakes was most likely started by the M-w 6.4 event as the initial event or foreshock, which then triggered backarc thrusts on both sides. Several weeks later and far to the northeast, the M-w 7.5 Palu earthquake occurred along the Palu-Koro Fault, filling a seismic gap that had not ruptured in an M-w 6.0 event or larger since at least 1900. The distribution of aftershocks indicates that the northern part of the Palu-Koro Fault has lower relative seismicity rates than the southern part at shallow depths, and that off fault aftershocks are mostly located to the east of the Palu-Koro Fault.
Recent large earthquakes in the Himalaya have resulted in tens of thousands of fatalities, yet these events are thought to have had relatively moderate magnitudes for the region. Evidence suggests multiple events throughout the Himalaya in the last 1000 years have had M > 8.0 and at least two have had M > 8.5. Despite this, understanding of earthquake risk in the region is poorly constrained, particularly in Bhutan, where research on both past and future earthquakes is notably scarce. While recent work has clearly shown the potential for large earthquakes here, the impacts from potential future earthquakes in Bhutan are entirely unknown. This study attempts to address this by modelling the potential fatalities associated with a range of plausible earthquakes through a scenario ensemble analysis in order to inform contingency planning and preparedness. The results show that both the timing and location of future earthquakes are critical factors in determining the number of fatalities, with night-time earthquakes, and those located in the west of the country proving most fatal. The worst case involves similar to 9000 fatalities and results from an M8.5 earthquake directly beneath Bhutan. Nevertheless, at the local scale the number of fatalities appears to saturate at similar to M7.5, since larger earthquakes do not result in significantly larger modelled fatalities. This suggests that local-scale impacts approaching the worst case may be relatively common and emergency planning could focus on comparatively moderate-sized earthquakes since larger, less frequent events may not necessarily result in significantly more fatalities.
Natural disasters such as tsunami, hurricanes, and earthquakes may have a negative impact on cardiac health. The aim of our systematic review is to evaluate the impact of earthquakes on the incidence of acute coronary syndromes and cardiac mortality and to examine the impact of the time of earthquakes on the incidence of acute coronary syndromes. MEDLINE and Cochrane databases were searched for studies assessing the impact of earthquakes on acute coronary syndromes from inception until December 20, 2017. Reference lists of all included studies and relevant review studies were also searched. A total of 26 studies on 12 earthquake disasters were included in the systematic review. The existing data show a significant negative impact of the Great East Japan, Christchurch, Niigata-Chuetsu, Northridge, Great Hanshin-Awaji, Sichuan, Athens, Armenia, and Noto Peninsula earthquakes on the incidence of acute coronary syndromes. By contrast, studies on the Newcastle, Loma Prieta, and Thessaloniki earthquakes did not show a significant correlation with myocardial infarction and cardiac mortality. In conclusion, earthquakes may be associated with increased incidence of acute coronary syndromes and cardiovascular mortality. There are conflicting data about the impact of the timing of earthquakes on the occurrence of acute coronary syndromes. Preventive measures to promote the adjustment of healthcare systems to treat cardiovascular diseases after natural disasters should be immediately implemented particularly in high-risk regions. (c) 2018 Hellenic Society of Cardiology. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V.
Earthquake early-warning system (EEWS) is inevitable for saving human lives. The fast determination of the Earthquake's (EQ's) magnitude and its location is significant in disaster management and EQ risk mitigation. These parameters can be conveyed over the Internet-of-Things (IoT) network to alleviate an EQ disaster. In this article, a deep learning model based on integrating autoencoder (AE) and convolutional neural network (CNN) for a swift pinpointing of EQ magnitude and location after 3 s from the onset of the P-wave is proposed. Thus, we name it 3 s AE and CNN (3S-AE-CNN). The employed data set is observed by three stations from the Japanese Hi-net seismic network. We have trained our model on 12200 events (109.80 thousand 3-s-three-component seismic windows). The model facilitates the extraction of waveforms' significant features leading to robust estimation of the EQ parameters. The proposed model predicts the magnitude and location of EQ with errors in magnitude, latitude, and longitude that reach 0.000028, 0.0000033, and 0.0001, respectively. The EQ's parameters calculated by the proposed 3S-AE-CNN model are swiftly sent to a centralized IoT system that in turn directs the involved entity to take suitable action. The obtained results of the 3S-AE-CNN are compared to the conventional manual solution method, which represents the optimum solution mean. The 3S-AE-CNN shows an enhanced performance for the magnitude and location determination as compared with the benchmark method, which proves its effectiveness for EEWS.
Fault slip rates and recurrence intervals of large earthquakes for active faults are important parameters for better understanding active faults and assessing their seismic hazard. The Tanlu fault, located in the densely populated and economically developed area of eastern China is thought to be the source of the M 7 Anqiu earthquake in 70 BC, and M 8(1/2) Tancheng earthquake in 1668. Understanding the recurrence interval of paleoearthquakes and fault slip rates for the Tancheng earthquake fault is critical for assessing the potential for seismic risk and assessment for the Tanlu fault. However, the only published study used several trenches and a single trench does not completely record the sequence of paleoearthquake events, leaving a large uncertainty of seismic hazard. GPS observations in North China show that there is no significant velocity gradient across the Tanlu fault, yet the long-term slip rate of the Tancheng segment of the fault is estimated to be significantly higher, up to 2 mm/a. Therefore, it is critical to conduct further research on the paleoearthquake history and slip rates of this fault segment to reconcile these contrasting results. In this study, we utilize aerial photographs and high-resolution satellite imagery, combined with field investigations of a surface rupture formed by the 1668 earthquake. The earthquake rupture is similar to 80 m long and similar to 2.5 m high, located in the Huaqiao village of northeastern Tancheng County. A gully across the rupture reveals a right lateral dislocation of approximately 36 m. We excavated two trenches on both sides of the rupture. Trench 1 reveals a positive flower structure and is consistent with a right lateral strike-slip fault with a thrust component consistent with the modern regional stress field. Trench 2 reveals a colluvial wedge formed by the latest paleoearthquake with a fine-grained deposit overlapping the colluvial wedge. The latest paleoearthquake should occur prior to deposition of the fine-grained deposit. AMS-C-14 radiocarbon dating was used to determine the age of the event and is approximately 12.8+4.0/-3.7 ka, indicating a recurrence interval of large earthquakes greater than 10 ka, consistent with the results from other segments of the Tanlu fault. Combined with an average slip of similar to 9 m for the 1668 Tancheng earthquake, the dextral slip rate along the Tancheng earthquake fault since the end of the late Pleistocene is estimated to be 0.7 mm/a, consistent with low interseismic strain accumulation based on geodetic observations across the North China region.
In July 2020, a Mw 7.8 earthquake initiated directly to the east of Simeonof Island offshore of the Alaska Peninsula. The earthquake ruptured the eastern part of the Shumagin Gap, a region devoid of large earthquakes over the last century and characterized by low geodetic coupling. Here, we investigate the rupture kinematics of the earthquake using a joint inversion of high-rate GNSS and strong-motion data. We find that the rupture was focused between depths of 30-45 km, starting east of the Shumagin Islands and rupturing downdip towards the northwest, with little slip west of 160 degrees W. Early postseismic observations indicate that the entirety of the Shumagin Gap at depths between 40-60 km ruptured with aseismic afterslip and aftershocks. Historically, this earthquake resembles the Shumagin Islands earthquake of 1917, indicating that a possible rupture asperity exists to explain low interseismic coupling and repeating similar to M7.5-8 earthquakes. Plain Language Summary A large Mw 7.8 earthquake occurred in July 2020 in the Aleutian Islands near a part of the subduction zone that is not locked, the Shumagin Gap. A fully locked fault will be more susceptible to large earthquakes since deformation is not released slowly over time. We model how the earthquake slipped using both observations of displacement and velocity nearby. We find that the July 2020 earthquake ruptured mainly the unlocked portion of the subduction zone and did not rupture into regions that are highly locked. This peculiar pattern of slip was also seen previously in 1917, indicating that the structure of the fault zone in the area may be conducive to earthquakes and some interseismic locking is occurring to allow for M7.5-8 earthquakes every century.
On 8 August 2017, a strong earthquake occurred on an unmapped extension of the Huya fault, Sichuan, China, causing severe damage to local communities. This event highlights the northward migration of major earthquakes along a single strike-slip fault. We analyze the source characteristics with Global Positioning System (GPS)/ Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar static displacements and high-rate GPS/teleseismic dynamic motions. Our analyses show a complex slip pattern characterized by two patches with a mean slip of 0.6m and predominantly strike-slip components. Slip propagates at a rupture speed of approximately 3.2 km/s for about 30 km in length and 20 km in width. Given a slip rate of 0.5 mm/year derived from GPS observations, the mean slip of 0.6 m inferred from the slip model suggests a recurrence interval of similar to 1,000 years for this earthquake and alike on the Huya fault. The Coulomb stress increase of 0.82 bar caused by preceding earthquakes promoted the failure of the northern Huya fault in 2017. In particular, the nucleation of this event was partially facilitated by the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake and postseismic deformation. Long-term slip deficits on most parts of the Huya fault have been balanced largely by a series of strong earthquakes since the early 1970s. As yet, a few of seismic gaps remain hazardous during the final stage of one seismic cycle. In particular, the ongoing postseismic relaxation will hasten further the 20- to 25-km long segment in the Jiuzhaigou National Natural Reserve closer to failure in a moderate size earthquake.
Community preparedness in facing natural hazards such as earthquakes is extremely important. Although there are numerous studies on community preparedness for earthquakes, the effort to systematically review this particular research topic has been challenging since it fails to incorporate the review procedures, presenting a considerable challenge for scholars to replicate or interpret. Therefore, this study aims to conduct a systematic literature review concerning community preparedness for earthquakes. The review processes included five key methodological steps, namely guided by review protocol, formulation of research questions, systematic searching strategies based on identification, screening, and eligibility on several established databases such as Scopus, Web of Science, Science Direct, Emerald, Taylor Francis, Springer Link, and Sage Journals, followed by quality appraisal, and data extraction and analysis. Seven main themes were also discovered based on the thematic analysis: (1) infrastructure-related; (2) information seeking and sharing, and experience sharing; (3) related programmes, training and campaign; (4) strong social relationships; (5) survival kits and supplies; (6) involvement, planning, training in evacuation or emergency drills; and (7) life-saving techniques and life protection. These seven themes were divided into 18 sub-themes.
The longitude, latitude and depth of the hypocenter in 3-D space and the date and time of rupture makes an earthquake a point in a spatio-temporal point pattern, observed over a region and months, years or decades. The magnitude of earthquakes marks the point pattern, as would hypocenter depth do if only the longitude and latitude of epicenters were used for location in 2-D space. Stochastic declustering, based on a space-time ETAS model (ETAS: epidemic-type aftershock sequence), is a procedure that can be applied in the preliminary stage of an earthquake catalog data analysis. Stochastic declustering procedures have underlying assumptions, such as the time independence of the background intensity function whether the spatial framework is 2-D or 3-D, and a separate treatment of hypocenter depth from longitude and latitude when the spatial framework is 3-D. Cyclical processes in the Earth, including tides and seasonal surface water loads, can introduce periodic behavior in earthquake occurrence and related variables. The effects of ETAS-based 2-D and 3-D declustering on the outcome of periodicity analyses performed from the resulting earthquake data catalogs are studied. The research objectives and statistical challenges include the detection of periodicities for hypocenter depth in addition to monthly earthquake number, and the risk of missing observations for hypocenter depth when the monthly earthquake number after declustering is zero. A version of the method of multi-frequential periodogram analysis (MFPA) that allows for missing observations in the input temporal series is presented in detail, and applied to hypocenter depth (monthly mean and median) for central and northern California from January 2006 to December 2014. The results obtained for the 2-D and 3-D declustered catalogs are compared with those for the original catalog for this region. A semiannual periodicity in hypocenter depth is detected for the original and 2-D declustered catalogs, and fitted with the goal of relating it to periodicities found in the time series of monthly earthquake numbers. Using these results for central and northern California earthquakes, some of the assumptions on the intensity function of the spatio-temporal point process in stochastic declustering are discussed and future research perspectives are proposed.
We aim at giving a short review of the seismo-associated phenomena detected on ground that in recent years have been investigated as possible earthquake precursors. The paper comes together with a companion article-published on this same volume by Picozza et al., 2021-devoted to summarize the space-based observation of earthquake-precursors by satellites missions. In the present work, we give an overview of the observations carried out on ground in order to identify earthquake precursors by distinguishing them from the large background constituted by both natural non-seismic and artificial sources. We start discussing the measurements of mechanical parameters and variations of geochemical fluids detected before earthquakes; then we review thermal and atmospheric oscillations; finally, observations of electromagnetic and ionospheric parameters possibly related to the occurrence of impeding earthquakes are discussed. In order to introduce a so large field of research, we focus only on some main case studies and statistical analyses together with the main hypotheses and models proposed in literature in order to explain the observed phenomenology.
High-precise relocation of aftershock sequence and detailed focal mechanism inversion could reveal the rupture properties of larger earthquakes, seismogenic structure and regional stress field, which provides the scientific evidence for decision-making regarding post-earthquake emergency management. In this study, the double-difference earthquake location algorithm was employed to delicately describe the spatial and temporary characteristics of Madoi, Qinghai n7.4 earthquake sequence within 9 days after the earthquake, a total of 1055 earthquakes were determined with greatly improved location accuracy. The focal mechanism of moderate aftershocks with M-s >>-4. 0 were inverted from the local and region waveforms recorded by the Qinghai, Tibet, Sichuan and Gansu regional seismic stations with the method of full-wave moment tensor inversion, and then the regional stress field of focal region was estimated by fault plane solutions of these aftershocks. The accuracy of relocation of results show the Madoi sequence lied between the Madoi-Gande fault and the southern margin of Gande fault, which appeared to be a steep seismogenic zone and an asymmetrical bilateral rupture in spatial-temporal evolution. Clear bifurcation geometry features were recognized at the both ends of surface trace of aftershocks, indicating the mainshock occurred in the complex tectonic system and triggered its branch faults. Most of moderate aftershocks, 12 out of 15 earthquakes, were of strike-slip faulting following the tectonic area, 3 thrust-type earthquakes mainly concentrated in the eastern tip of the main tectonic line which probably indicates the segmented character of the fault. The stress field inversion suggests the focal region is undergoing the compression in the EW direction, and being compatible with the dominant stress orientation in Tibetan Plateau. We deduced the Madoi mainshock ruptured on a left-lateral strike-slip fault with NWW-striking in the Bayan Har block, and it activated faults near the eastern and western tip of seismogenic fault and involved multiple fault branches. The heterogeneity of rupture plane controls the variability of spatial and temporal distribution of aftershocks.
Clustering is a fundamental feature of earthquakes that impacts basic and applied analyses of seismicity. Events included in the existing short-duration instrumental catalogs are concentrated strongly within a very small fraction of the space-time volume, which is highly amplified by activity associated with the largest recorded events. The earthquakes that are included in instrumental catalogs are unlikely to be fully representative of the long-term behavior of regional seismicity. We illustrate this and other aspects of space-time earthquake clustering, and propose a quantitative clustering measure based on the receiver operating characteristic diagram. The proposed approach allows eliminating effects of marginal space and time inhomogeneities related to the geometry of the fault network and regionwide changes in earthquake rates, and quantifying coupled space-time variations that include aftershocks, swarms, and other forms of clusters. The proposed measure is used to quantify and compare earthquake clustering in southern California, western United States, central and eastern United States, Alaska, Japan, and epidemic-type aftershock sequence model results. All examined cases show a high degree of coupled space-time clustering, with the marginal space clustering dominating the marginal time clustering. Declustering earthquake catalogs can help clarify long-term aspects of regional seismicity and increase the signal-to-noise ratio of effects that are subtler than the strong clustering signatures. We illustrate how the high coupled space-time clustering can be decreased or removed using a data-adaptive parsimonious nearest-neighbor declustering approach, and emphasize basic unresolved issues on the proper outcome and quality metrics of declustering. At present, declustering remains an exploratory tool, rather than a rigorous optimization problem, and selecting an appropriate declustering method should depend on the data and problem at hand.
In this paper, a new earthquake location method based on the waveform inversion is proposed. As is known to all, the waveform misfit function under the L-2 measure is suffering from the cycle skipping problem. This leads to a very small convergence domain of the conventional waveform based earthquake location methods. In present study, by introducing and solving two simple sub-optimization problems, we greatly expand the convergence domain of the waveform based earthquake location method. According to a large number of numerical experiments, the new method expands the range of convergence by several tens of times. This allows us to locate the earthquake accurately even from some relatively bad initial values.
The influence of surface mining on the initiation of large seismic event is considered. The conditions of shearing-type dynamic events are described. A surface mine with the similar parameters as the Bachatsky open pit mine in Kuzbass is adduced as an example for quantifying the mining-induced change in the stress state in the plane of a future rupture as a result of an induced tectonic earthquake nearby a fault plane is quantified. The calculations are performed for different geometrical parameters of the fault zone: the changes are more observable in the zones of gently dipping thrust faulting and less appreciable in the area of steep normal faulting and strike-slip. In case of large surface mines, the zone of positive change in the Coulomb stresses higher than several tenths mega pascals has a considerable dimension and an area markedly larger than the area of nucleation zone of earthquakes of the magnitude M <= 6. In such conditions, even a small variability at the level of first percentage points of the natural stresses can be sufficient for the initiation of seismicity-generating shearing along the high-stress faults. It is found that, as against underground mining, the surface mining activities have no influence on localization of large earthquake sources but can draw the event nearer.
Crustal deformation due to the 2016 earthquake sequence in Kumamoto, Japan, that culminated in a preceding earthquake of magnitude M6.5 and a subsequent M7.3 earthquake 28 h later, caused stress perturbation on and around the causative Futagawa-Hinagu fault zone. Monitoring changes in seismicity pattern along this zone plays a role in understanding the process before and after major earthquakes. For this purpose, stress-dependent laws in statistical seismology can be used: the Gutenberg-Richter frequency-size law and the Omori-Utsu aftershock-decay law. We review the results obtained by using these laws in previous studies to show a zone of high stress near the eventual epicenters of the M6.5 and M7.3 earthquakes before the start of the Kumamoto sequence, and after it, showing a decreasing trend in stress along the Futagawa-Hinagu fault zone. Detailed analysis suggests aseismic slips along the causative fault zone. The aseismic preslip locally reduced stress just prior to the M7.3 earthquake near its epicenter. Recently, a system was proposed by Gulla and Wiemer (2019) that utilizes the Gutenberg-Richter frequency-size law to judge, immediately after a large earthquake, whether it was the mainshock or a foreshock to a future event. Based on the reviewed results and our new results, further research that takes into account the spatial variation of frequency-size distribution, allowing the exploration of the possibility of a local preslip of a future nearby earthquake, is needed to improve this system.
The load of marine environment is complex and unpredictable. The soil around the foundation of offshore structure is the main bearing body, which is greatly affected by the earthquake. There are a large number of sand layers in the coastal areas which have been built or are planned to be built in China. Compared with the desert Gobi area, the dynamic characteristics of the soil around the piles are significantly different. The existing studies mainly consider the evolution of soil mechanical properties under a single earthquake, and little attention is paid to the influence of earthquake sequence and earthquake history on the dynamic characteristics of soil around the foundation. With the use of the ZJU-400 centrifuge shaking table, this paper carried out a centrifuge modeling test in dry sand and saturated sand grounds, and compared the dynamic response of soil around the pile in two grounds under the earthquake. It is found that the natural frequency of saturated foundation is obviously affected by the historical effect of earthquake, while that of the dry sand ground is not. The strong pile-soil interaction can accelerate the development of excess pore pressure around the pile. Due to the historical effect of earthquake, the dilatancy characteristics of soil are gradually strengthened, the accumulation and development process of excess pore pressure around the pile is gradually slowed down, and the dissipation process becomes faster. Saturated sand ground has the characteristics of low frequency amplification and high frequency weakening. The historical effect of earthquake has no significant effect on the amplification factor of soil in dry sand ground, but for saturated ground, the amplification coefficient of soil shows an obvious increase. In the saturated sand ground, the shear modulus of soil around the pile is more affected by the excess pore pressure than the shear strain. During the shaking, the modulus gradually decreases without the phenomenon of gradual recovery in the dry sand ground.
Geoinformatics plays an essential role during the recovery phase of a post-earthquake situation. The aim of this paper is to present the methodology followed and the results obtained by the utilization of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UASs) 4K-video footage processing and the automation of geo-information methods targeted at both monitoring the demolition process and mapping the demolished buildings. The field campaigns took place on the traditional settlement of Vrisa (Lesvos, Greece), which was heavily damaged by a strong earthquake (Mw=6.3) on June 12th, 2017. For this purpose, a flight campaign took place on 3rd February 2019 for collecting aerial 4K video footage using an Unmanned Aircraft. The Structure from Motion (SfM) method was applied on frames which derived from the 4K video footage, for producing accurate and very detailed 3D point clouds, as well as the Digital Surface Model (DSM) of the building stock of the Vrisa traditional settlement, twenty months after the earthquake. This dataset has been compared with the corresponding one which derived from 25th July 2017, a few days after the earthquake. Two algorithms have been developed for detecting the demolished buildings of the affected area, based on the DSMs and 3D point clouds, correspondingly. The results obtained have been tested through field studies and demonstrate that this methodology is feasible and effective in building demolition detection, giving very accurate results (97%) and, in parallel, is easily applicable and suit well for rapid demolition mapping during the recovery phase of a post-earthquake scenario. The significant advantage of the proposed methodology is its ability to provide reliable results in a very low cost and time-efficient way and to serve all stakeholders and national and local organizations that are responsible for post-earthquake management.
This article describes a database that provides various catalogs of slow earthquakes. The catalogs list the times and the locations of the events, with additional information depending on the catalog. Because these catalogs are provided by a variety of documents in different formats, previous studies that use them must repeat complex procedures for preparing data. To make it more convenient to use multiple catalogs and promote research on slow earthquakes, we compiled a number of catalogs into a standardized format in a single repository, the Slow Earthquake Database, at the University of Tokyo (see Data and Resources). Users can visualize the source locations of multiple slow earthquakes in the database in map views on the website. Convenient access to the database encourages researchers to work on slow earthquakes regardless of their backgrounds. We also expect the database will foster collaboration among researchers in various fields and further the understanding of the mechanisms, environmental conditions, and underlying physics of slow earthquakes. Through the compilation of this database, we established a global standard of slow earthquake catalogs.
Generally speaking, the estimate of casualty, economic loss and damage of building or structures after earthquakes is modelled through the evaluating seismic influence field and the data which is administrative units for census and statistics. Thus, the evaluating results have good application in large scale, but are not accurate enough in the case of post-earthquake disaster assessments. The data based on kilometre grid can better embody the spatial heterogeneity of elements. And then it would improve the accuracy of the assessments. The paper introduces the design and implementation of earthquake emergency response system based on the kilometre grid data in Shanxi province of population, economy, and housing from several facets, such as system architecture, technology implementation, database design, functional modules and algorithms, system workflows and product details. Taking the 2010 M4.8 Hejin earthquake as an example, the evaluation is fast, precise, and spatial heterogeneity of the disaster pre-assessment is obvious..
An exponential rise in population along with uncontrolled and unplanned urbanization exposed to earthquakes reeks a plenitude of hazard in terms of life and property. Effects, mechanics, and impact of an earthquake in terms of ground shaking, site effects, liquefaction, and landslides had been broadly covered in the past, and the recent developments have catered profound understanding of earthquakes. Our recent studies on ground motion attenuation characteristics, comprehensive seismic hazard analyses, site effects, liquefaction behaviour, seismic microzonation, ground motion analyses, joint time-frequency analysis-based ground motion synthesis, etc., have largely contributed to geotechnical earthquake engineering. Our detailed experimental and numerical works on liquefaction have improved the understanding of liquefaction of sands. Installation of ground motion sensors and monitoring of earthquakes have further supplemented geotechnical earthquake engineering research in the country. Recent surveys on earthquake preparedness and readiness indices have pointed out the urgent need for general awareness, and an action plan towards mitigating and managing the hazard due to earthquakes. This paper discusses the Quintessence of 25 years of the author's contribution to the field of Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering.
Indonesia has the highest seismic activity in the world because it traversed by three meeting plates (Indo-Australian, Eurasian and Pacific Plate) and located in the Ring of Fire area. The shaking events of an earthquake are very strong, spread in all directions and had a seismic connection between each contiguos event based on location or time occur. The impact of an earthquake can destroy property, triggers another disaster and take so many victims. There is a seismic association between provinces in Indonesia. In this paper, we present a new earthquake Spatio-temporal mapping system based on the association confidence value from the result of associative mining process on earthquake data distribution in Indonesia. The system proposed three main functions which are (1) Data Acquisition which taken from four data provider, then preprocess and combine it become one, (2) Associative Mining process to get the rule of association earthquake between provinces in Indonesia, and (3) Earthquake Association Spatio-Temporal Model from the highest confidence value and Visualization. We use data from several earthquake data providers from 1900 until 2018. To perform our proposed Spatio-temporal earthquake association mapping system, we divided the data to become a 5-year discrete partition. After that, we mining the rule and get the highest confidence value from each period. This confidence value is used for modeling and visualization of our Spatio-temporal mapping system. As a result of this study, we manage to generate earthquake association risk mapping from 13 provinces. The low-level risk provinces are North Sumatra, Bengkulu, NTT, Gorontalo and West Papua. The moderate risk provinces are Aceh, Papua, North Sulawesi, and Maluku. The high-level risk provinces are East Java, Bali, NTB, and North Maluku.
Earth Observation (EO) data are used to map mostly affected urban areas after an earthquake generally exploiting change detection techniques applied at pixel scale. However, Civil Protection Services require damage assessment of each building according to a well-established scale to manage rescue operations and to estimate the economic losses. Considering the earthquake that hit L'Aquila city (Italy) on April 6, 2009, this work assess the feasibility of producing damage maps at the scale of single building from Very High Resolution (VHR) optical images collected before and after the seismic event. We considered the European Macroseismic Scale 1998 (EMS-98) and assessed the possibility to discriminate between collapsed or heavy damaged buildings (damage grade DG equal to 5 in the EMS-98 scale) and less damaged or undamaged buildings (DG < 5 in the EMS-98). The proposed approach relies on a pre-existing urban map to identify image objects corresponding to building footprints. The image analysis is carried out according to many different parameters with the objective of assessing their effectiveness in singling out changes associated to the building collapse. Features describing texture and colour changes, as well statistical similarity and correlation descriptors, such as the Kullbach Leibler Distance and the Mutual Information, were included in our analysis. Two supervised classification approaches, respectively, based on the use of the Bayesian Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) criterion and on Support Vector Machines (SVM), were compared. In our experiment, we considered the whole L'Aquila historical centre comparing classification results with the ground survey performed by the Istituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia (INGV). The work represents one of the first attempt to detect damage at the scale of single building, validated against an extensive ground survey. It addresses methodological aspects, highlighting the potential of textural features computed at object scale and SVMs, and discuss potential and limitations of EO in this field compared to ground surveys.
New Zealand introduced a seismic retrofitting policy in the wake of the catastrophic Canterbury earthquakes of 2010-11. The aim was to enforce seismic strengthening of earthquake-prone commercial buildings throughout the country. This study focuses on regional urban centres and the economic obstacles to strengthening their aging building stock. In investigating one town, Whanganui, we describe conditions, analyse cases, and identify incentives that apply equally to many other towns in New Zealand. We argue that incentives that suit high-growth, high-value major urban centres are a poor fit for the periphery. Around the world, many places need to upgrade their privately-owned building stock to protect it from disasters, while governments face similar challenges as they struggle to initiate the strengthening of commercial buildings. We analyse the current incentive schemes that aim to support the achievement of policy goals and suggest alternative incentive schemes that can be implemented to improve strengthening outcomes.
Earthquake geohazards that occur throughout the Borneo Block, especially in SW Borneo, cannot be reconciled within the classical earthquake mechanism and a uniform stress field, and unfulfilled earthquake forecast for many years. In this paper, we present a new inventory of 37 Borneo earthquakes, and focal mechanisms show that in NE Borneo earthquakes and aftershocks are dominated by NW-trending normal faults, in East Borneo earthquakes are controlled by the reactivation of NW-trending sinistral strike-slip faults, and the NE-trending thrusts acted as the main seismogenic faults in the SE Borneo seismicity zone. We calculated the Coulomb stress and observed the shallow faults exhibiting a high coefficient response to the Coulomb stress change and all these earthquakes under the Coulomb failure regime have decreased by the stress shadows or are triggered by dynamic stress increase and propagation. We performed a research using the horizontal GPS velocity displacements and vertical seismic sections and found that the micro-blocks convergence occurred here corresponding to the Coulomb stress distribution, and can best explain the earthquake mechanism within the Borneo Block. Additionally, the earthquakes in SW Borneo showing a concordant focal mechanism along the Red-River Fault-Tinjar Fault-Sumatra Trench, are deduced to have formed along the Sunda Block boundary. Finally, the micro block boundaries determined from the heatflux map can be effective in describing the main and aftershocks distribution in SE Asia, and the deep-shallow coupling dynamic model is proposed to solve the stress loading for these crustal-scale earthquakes and the responses to plate convergence in SE Asia.
Earthquake fault rupture-soil-foundation interaction (FR-SFI) was simulated using the discrete element method (DEM) with irregularly shaped sphere-clusters to capture the three-dimensional nature of sand grains. High-performance computing simulations of free-field fault rupture and FR-SFI compared well with geotechnical centrifuge experiments in terms of shear rupture development, surface deformation, and foundation response. Micromechanical analyses of particle rotations, interparticle contacts, and void ratio distributions provided key insight into the mechanisms of FR-SFI. Particle rotations showed clearly where rupture surfaces developed, and the distributions of void ratios showed which rupture surfaces softened fully. The rupture surfaces for reverse fault displacement deflect systematically toward the hanging wall side of the foundation as its contact pressure increases. The shear rupture produced by normal faulting migrates from one path propagating toward the hanging wall side of the foundation to a second path propagating toward the footwall side of the foundation due to the presence of the foundation. DEM shows promise for evaluating earthquake FR-SFI.
Offshore wind turbines (OWTs) are now being built in seismically active regions with the implementation of netzero emissions of carbon dioxide. Safe operation of OWTs on suction bucket foundation is severely threatened by earthquake-induced liquefaction. This research investigated the performance of the suction bucket foundation supported the OWT in the liquefiable sand under wind and earthquake loads. A series of three-dimensional numerical models were established to perform the nonlinear dynamic analysis, in which the sandy seabed was described by an advanced elastic-plastic constitutive model. Various factors affecting seismic responses of the suction bucket foundation were analyzed, including the wind loads, seismic loads, aspect ratios of suction buckets, and sand densities. The responses were evaluated in terms of accelerations, excess pore water pressure ratios, horizontal displacements, settlements, and rotations of the OWT under wind and earthquake loads. The OWT may suffer a permanent tilt to exceed the serviceability limit state of the OWT due to wind loads, earthquakes, and liquefaction. The deformation mechanism of the suction bucket foundation under wind loads and earthquakes was revealed. The rotation-based proposed design charts were given for checking the design of seismic conditions. These research results can be used in a comparative sense for the design of the OWT in seismically active areas.
Fault models are quickly produced and iteratively improved over weeks to years following a major earthquake, to characterise the dynamics of rupture, evaluate the role of stress transfer, and contribute to earthquake forecasting. We model Coulomb stress transfer (Delta CFS) between the largest foreshock (Mw 5.4; 1 year prior to first mainshock) and three Mw 6.1 to 6.5 earthquakes that occurred in a 12-hour period on January 22, 1988 in central Australia (Tennant Creek earthquake sequence) to investigate the role of static stress transfer in earthquake triggering relative to progressive source model development. The effects of fault model variance are studied using Delta CFS modelling of five different fault source model sequences (27 total models) using different inputs from seismic and geospatial data. Some initial models do not yield positive Delta CFS changes proximal to hypocentres but in all models, preceding earthquakes generate positive Delta CFS (>= 0.1 bar) on >= a 10 to 30% of the forthcoming receiver fault rupture areas. The most refined and data-integrative model reveals Delta CFS >= + 0.7 to +13 bars within 2 km of impending hypocentres and large (>= 30 to 99%) areas of positive ACES. When compared to global compilations of threshold Delta CFS prior to impending ruptures (average = 3.71 bar, median = 1 bar), this suggests that Coulomb stress change theory adequately explains the Tennant Creek rupture sequence. In the most-refined model, earthquake inter-event times decrease as Delta CES increases, suggesting that higher stress magnitudes may have more rapidly (within hours) triggered successive events, thus accounting for some temporal aspects of this sequence. Delta CFS analyses provide a useful framework for understanding the spatiotemporal aspects of some intraplate earthquakes. The progressive refinement of source models using emergent data may reduce epistemic uncertainties in the role of stress transfer that result from different model inputs, approaches, and results.
Large scale gravity change related to earthquakes could be observed by GRACE satellite gravity data and the changing patterns could be recognized. Co-seismic and post-seismic gravity change could be observed close to the epicenter of the M(w)8.8 Chile earthquake in 2010. This paper calculated the co-seismic and post-seismic gravity change of the 2010 Chile earthquake based on the GRACE RL05 Level-2 time-variable gravity data. From the co-seismic result, we discovered that the co-seismic maximum gravity change reached - 5 mu Gal. Our method of reducing the disturbance of water mass change by calculating the 3-year average before and after the earthquake performed well. From the post-seismic result, we observed that the gravity change from 2011 to 2016 having a first increase then decrease pattern. The fitting to the postseismic change revealed that the post-seismic gravity change is about l mu Gal close to the epicenter, and the characteristic time is about 1. 1 year. The Chile earthquake didn't show a typical postseismic change of two terms (short and long).
In the early morning of September 6th, 2018, an intense earthquake struck Hokkaido Iburi-Tobu area. By this earthquake, many landslides occurred and claimed 36 lives. The landslide numbers reached 6,000 and mostly they are shallow landslides moving down of the air-fall pumice layer from Tarumai volcano which erupted ca. 9,000 years ago. However, southeast of the area, deep-seated landslides of dip-slipping type are also found.
One of the most active intraplate volcanoes in East Asia, Changbaishan volcano experienced unrest from July 2002 to July 2005. On 2002/06/28, the M 7.2 Wangqing deep-focus earthquake occurred similar to 290 km northeast of Changbaishan volcano. While some studies have suggested a possible triggering relationship, the physical mechanism of such distant interaction is still not well understood. Using a template matching technique, which cross-correlates waveform of known events with continuous data, we perform systematic detection of microseismic events recorded by station CBS near Changbaishan volcano from July 1999 to July 2007. The detected earthquakes can be further categorized into three different types: volcano-tectonic (VT) events, long-period (LP) events and harmonic-spectra (HS) events. We detect 3763 VT events between July 2002 and July 2007. The intense VT earthquake swarm during the period from July 2002 to July 2005, along with recurring LPs and HSs and other geodetic/geochemical evidence, suggest magma movement during unrest. Compared with the hand-picked catalogue, the catalogue obtained by template matching technique reveals a delayed-triggering relationship between Wangqing deep-focus earthquake and unrest. The small magnitudes of the VT events and the limited numbers of LP and HS events suggest that the Wangqing mainshock likely triggered bubble excitation in the mid-crust magma system, resulting in overpressure and a small magma injection into the shallow magma chamber at a depth of similar to 5 km, leading to the 3-years unrest.
Earthquakes as a natural hazard have caused substantial economic losses and human life loss in many countries. Taiwan, which is located on the western Circum-Pacific seismic belt, encountered this problem in the form of the Meishan, Hsinchu-Taichung, and Chi-Chi earthquakes a few years ago. In this paper, the researchers propose a novel robot-event integrated system capable of doing the automated inspection and emergency response due to a significant earthquake. As the household's earthquake warning receiving device picks up an alert, its built-in wireless communications system will send a signal to the robot. The robot will then commence the inspection of the indoor area via real-time image recognition and tracking. Upon detecting fallen people, it will approach them, regulating their movements via the robot operating system monitoring interface. The robot is designed to operate in a house that remains standing with acceptable damage in which the furniture might be falling and injure the occupants after an earthquake hit. The indoor experiment was conducted to verify the robot system and operation with a designed condition such as fallen and non-fallen people as the detected object. The precision of the robot arm was tested in the case of the delivery of supplies to the fallen people while waiting for the rescuers to arrive. The tests indicated that the proposed smart robot has prospective implementation in real-world applications with more research and development. The smart robot integrated with an earthquake early warning system is a promising approach to the temporary care of people affected by earthquakes.
A low-magnitude earthquake was recorded on 2017 January 18, in the Tenere desert in northern Niger. This intraplate region is exceptionally sparsely covered with seismic stations and the closest open seismic station, G.TAM in Algeria at a distance of approximately 600 km, was unusually and unfortunately not operational at the time of the event. Body-wave magnitude estimates range from m(b) 4.2 to m(b) 4.7 and both seismic location and magnitude constraints are dominated by stations at teleseismic distances. The seismic constraints are strengthened considerably by array stations of the International Monitoring System for verifying compliance with the Comprehensive Nuclear Test-Ban-Treaty. This event, with magnitude relevant to low-yield nuclear tests, provides a valuable validation of the detection and location procedure for small land-based seismic disturbances at significant distances. For seismologists not in the CTBT system, the event is problematic as data from many of the key stations are not openly available. We examine the uncertainty in published routinely determined epicentres by performing multiple Bayesloc location estimates with published arrival times considering both all published arrival times and those from open stations only. This location exercise confirms lateral uncertainties in seismologically derived location no smaller than 10 km. Coherence for interferometric synthetic aperture radar in this region is exceptionally high, and allows us to confidently detect a displacement of the order 6 mm in the time frame containing the earthquake, consistent with the seismic location estimates, and with a lateral length scale consistent with an earthquake of this size, allowing location constraint to within one rupture length (<= 5 km)-significantly reducing the lateral uncertainty compared with relying on seismological data only. Combining Open Access-only seismological and geodetic data, we precisely constrain the source location, and conclude that this earthquake likely had a shallow source. We then discuss potential ways to continue the integration of geodetic data in the calibration of seismological earthquake location.
The presentation considers the findings from a recent study on the efficacy of the national emergency education program in Israel. Jointly operated by the Israeli Home Front Command and the Israeli Ministry of Education, the program intends to educate students on the risks of earthquakes and provide ways for the school population (staff, student and their families) to prepare for and behave during and after a major seismic event. Combining qualitative and quantitative research methodologies, the researchers identified both organizational and pedagogical program shortcomings. Addressing these issues, the presentation offers a series of suggestions for improving the program and hence earthquake preparation levels among the students and their families. While specifically pertaining to the composite of communities in the southern Israeli periphery, the suggestions relate to a seemingly universal gap between pre-conceived national mitigation strategies and the practicalities of their implementation on a local level. As such, the insights acquired from this study may be useful for improving other similarly challenged national disaster education programs. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Recently, data integration has attracted increasing interest from different research domains. In most situations, data integration systems are provided for users to access homogeneous data from a set of private databases. However, open and public databases provide access through the internet. To make better use of data, we need to integrate the data from different data sources. This situation is also true in regard to earthquake event data. Thus, to solve such problems, in this paper, we provided a framework that integrates the earthquake-related information published on different websites. The most important aspect is how to determine which disaster events are the same. The main work in this paper consists of identifying the data entities from different data sources. The application is based on the integration of online data on earthquake events from different websites. By integrating the data from different data sources, we can spend less time sorting the data, and we can more quickly complete the next steps faster, such as data analysis and the development of disaster relief strategies.
The response spectral ratio (RSR) used to construct a design spectrum that incorporates site effects is conventionally assumed to be independent of an earthquake scenario in linear analysis. However, recent studies have found that the RSR varies significantly with an earthquake scenario, even in linear analysis. In this study, an analytical RSR model that incorporates the effect of an earthquake scenario is proposed. To this end, the mechanism behind the effect of earthquake scenarios, i.e., the variation in the RSR with an earthquake scenario, is systematically investigated by comparisons with the scenario-independent Fourier spectral ratio based on random vibration theory. The proposed RSR model is verified by comparing its results with those obtained from a SHAKE analysis considering a variety of actual soil conditions. Based on the proposed RSR model, the design spectrum incorporating site effects can be reasonably and easily constructed.
'Every Earthquake a Precursor According to Scale' (EEPAS) is a catalogue-based model to forecast earthquakes within the coming months, years and decades, depending on magnitude. EEPAS has been shown to perform well in seismically active regions like New Zealand (NZ). It is based on the observation that seismicity increases prior to major earthquakes. This increase follows predictive scaling relations. For larger target earthquakes, the precursor time is longer and precursory seismicity may have occurred prior to the start of the catalogue. Here, we derive a formula for the completeness of precursory earthquake contributions to a target earthquake as a function of its magnitude and lead time, where the lead time is the length of time from the start of the catalogue to its time of occurrence. We develop two new versions of EEPAS and apply them to NZ data. The Fixed Lead time EEPAS (FLEEPAS) model is used to examine the effect of the lead time on forecasting, and the Fixed Lead time Compensated EEPAS (FLCEEPAS) model compensates for incompleteness of precursory earthquake contributions. FLEEPAS reveals a space-time trade-off of precursory seismicity that requires further investigation. Both models improve forecasting performance at short lead times, although the improvement is achieved in different ways.
The New Madrid Seismic Zone, located in the central United States, produced five earthquakes in 1811-1812, 1843, and 1895, ranging from strong to major. A recurrence of its activity would cause substantial damage to the central U.S., but the magnitude of the most likely event is debatable. Accounting for 0.2 s spectral accelerations (SA) and peak ground velocities (PGV) with the local geologic conditions, this study offered methods for estimating the moment magnitudes (M) of these earthquakes. We analyzed 0.2 s SA and PGV and compared these data with the reported Modified Mercalli Intensities. Our estimates are M 7.6, 7.5, and 7.7 for the three 1811-1812 mainshocks in order of quake occurrence; M 6.2 for the 1843 Marked Tree, Arkansas; and M 6.7 for the 1895 Charleston, Missouri, earthquakes. These estimates are comparable to or exceed most previous approximations. Accordingly, potential liquefaction and resultant ground failure may affect most unconsolidated sediments throughout the central United States.
The 13 November 2016 Kaikoura earthquake occurred in the northeastern coastal region of the South Island, New Zealand. The M-w 7.8 mainshock generated a complex pattern of surface ruptures, and was followed within about 12 hours by three moderate shocks of M-w >= 6.0. Here we use teleseismic waveforms to invert for the source rupture of the Kaikoura earthquake. The resulting slip-distribution model exhibits insignificant slip near the hypocenter and three pockets of major slip zones with distinct senses of motion. The mainshock started from a rupture near the hypocenter, grew into thrust on shallow crustal faults similar to 50 km northeast of the hypocenter, and then developed into two slip zones: a deeper one with oblique thrust and a shallower one with almost purely right-lateral strike-slip. Locations of the thrust and strike-slip motions in the slip-distribution model agree well with reported coastal uplifts and horizontal offsets. The overall slip pattern is dominated by horizontal motion, especially at shallow depth, due to the partitioning of thrust and strike-slip motions above the subduction zone megathrust. Aftershock distribution suggests that most aftershocks tend to occur near the edges of the major slip zones of the mainshock. This observation on aftershock locations may provide useful information for seismic hazard assessments after large earthquakes.
Several soil models, such as linear elastic, equivalent linear, and non-linear models, are employed in seismic ground response analysis. The aim of this study was to validate the seismic responses at ground surface of several soil models with the vertical array record of the Kobe earthquake. One-dimensional seismic response analyses were performed at Port Island using several soil models. The responses at ground surface from the simulated soil models were validated with the vertical array record of the Kobe earthquake. The results showed that the extended hyperbolic model yielded the most appropriate response according to the Kobe earthquake's recorded motion. This means that this model can be considered a suitable soil model to predict the response of strong earthquakes. In general, the results support the recommendation to select the most appropriate soil model for seismic ground response analysis.
The Ranau earthquake that struck on June 5, 2015 was the strongest ever experienced in Sabah causing locals, especially children at the epicenter of the earthquake to panic. Consequently, it was decided to undertake a qualitative research study to determine the perceptions and knowledge of primary school students in Ranau on earthquakes, and to identify factors influencing their knowledge and perceptions. Purposive sampling was used to select the school that had suffered the worst damage due to the earthquake. Six of the level two students from this school were randomly selected to be interviewed: Three male and three female. Qualitative data was collected using a semi-structured interview method. The findings show that primary school students in Ranau have no knowledge about the concept of 'earthquake'. The respondents' perceptions of the earthquake evoked phrases and comments such as 'scary disaster', 'swirling houses', 'houses collapsed', 'damaged roads' and 'quakes will cause death'. The Damage to the school buildings made them frightened to go to school amid fears that the buildings would collapse. The findings also show that the perceptions of these school children were influenced by their experience in the face of the earthquake, as well as factors related to their cultural and religious backgrounds. The results of this study can be used to devise educational programs to educate school children and provide them with a clearer picture of an earthquake disaster so that they will be better prepared to face this kind of disaster in the future. (C) 2019 Published by Future Academy www.FutureAcademy.org .UK
The temporal and spatial distribution of seismic activity is analyzed using a self-organizing map (SOM) to find the relation between large, hazardous and other, smaller earthquakes. The seismic activity is represented by the number of shallow earthquakes with magnitude greater than 1.0 that are counted in lists of hypocenters every 3 months for suitably divided spatial segments of the Tohoku and Kanto areas in northern and central Japan, respectively. The input vector of the SOM, consisting of the spatial distribution of seismic activity, is assigned to each time interval and given a label that specifies the time relative to the occurrence of large earthquakes. Unsupervised learning of the SOM produces a two-dimensional map that can separate the input vectors into active and inactive seismic periods. Since an active period begins with a precursory stage preceding large earthquakes, the possible occurrence of a large earthquake can be predicted by identifying the current state of the seismic activity as either an active or inactive period in the SOM.
Vast quantities of liquefaction ejecta repeatedly inundated properties during the 2010-2011 Canterbury earthquake sequence in New Zealand, resulting in differential ground surface subsidence and significant damage to buildings and urban infrastructure. There are strong spatial correlations between the occurrence of ejected sediment with groundwater pressure in deep aquifers. When geotechnical testing sites are grouped according to liquefaction vulnerability indices (to control variance relating to shaking strength, water table depth, and soil profile strength), places where 'minor' and 'moderate-severe' liquefaction occurred during the Mw6.2 Christchurch earthquake had distinctly higher aquifer pressure than sites where liquefaction was not observed. Together with observations of earthquake-induced pressure changes and inferred transfer of groundwater from deep aquifers to shallower levels, an interpretation is that leakage from aquifers with artesian (above ground) pressure provided an additional driving mechanism for surface manifestation of water and sediment. It is surmised that above-ground aquifer pressures further promoted suffusion and piping along fractures, flow-pathways and liquefied horizons. The Mw6.2 Christchurch earthquake is presented as an example where leakage of artesian groundwater likely contributed to the near-surface liquefaction-induced ground damage. The process can result in underprediction of liquefaction vulnerability so needs to be considered when evaluating potential for earthquake-induced liquefaction and ground damage wherever groundwater is confined.
Pre-existing longitudinal studies of people affected by disasters provide opportunities to examine the effects of these events on health. Data used in the current investigation were provided by participants in the New Zealand Health, Work and Retirement longitudinal surveys conducted in 2010, 2012 and 2014 (n = 428; aged 50-83), who lived in the Canterbury region of New Zealand during the 2010-2011 earthquakes. Latent profile growth analyses were used to identify groups of respondents who had similar pre-post-disaster physical and mental health profiles. These groups were compared in terms of demographic factors, personal impact of the earthquakes assessed in 2012 and the overall negative-positive impact of the earthquake assessed in 2014. There was little evidence of change in health status overtime. Groups did not differ in their experiences of threat or disruption, however those in poorest health reported greatest distress and a more negative overall impact of the earthquake. Although results suggest little impact of disasters on health of surviving older adults, pre-disaster vulnerabilities were associated with distress. Social workers and agencies responsible for disaster response can play a key role in pre-disaster planning and assessment of vulnerabilities of older adults to enhance potential for positive outcomes post-disaster.
Earthquake early warning system uses high-speed computer network to transmit earthquake information to population center ahead of the arrival of destructive earthquake waves. This short (10 s of seconds) lead time will allow emergency responses such as turning off gas pipeline valves to be activated to mitigate potential disaster and casualties. However, the excessive false alarm rate of such a system imposes heavy cost in terms of loss of services, undue panics, and diminishing credibility of such a warning system. At the current, the decision algorithm to issue an early warning of the onset of an earthquake is often based on empirically chosen features and heuristically set thresholds and suffers from excessive false alarm rate. In this paper, we experimented with three advanced machine learning algorithms, namely, $K$ -nearest neighbor (KNN), classification tree, and support vector machine (SVM) and compared their performance against a traditional criterion-based method. Using the seismic data collected by an experimental strong motion detection network in Taiwan for these experiments, we observed that the machine learning algorithms exhibit higher detection accuracy with much reduced false alarm rate.
We propose a method that employs the squared displacement integral (ID2) to estimate earthquake magnitudes in real time for use in earthquake early warning (EEW) systems. Moreover, using tau (c) and P (d) for comparison, we establish formulas for estimating the moment magnitudes of these three parameters based on the selected aftershocks (4.0 ae<currency> M (s) ae<currency> 6.5) of the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake. In this comparison, the proposed ID2 method displays the highest accuracy. Furthermore, we investigate the applicability of the initial parameters to large earthquakes by estimating the magnitude of the Wenchuan M (s) 8.0 mainshock using a 3-s time window. Although these three parameters all display problems with saturation, the proposed ID2 parameter is relatively accurate. The evolutionary estimation of ID2 as a function of the time window shows that the estimation equation established with ID2 (Ref) determined from the first 8-s of P wave data can be directly applicable to predicate the magnitudes of 8.0. Therefore, the proposed ID2 parameter provides a robust estimator of earthquake moment magnitudes and can be used for EEW purposes.
Earthquake disasters and postdisaster reconstruction have profound impacts on human society. We use time series nighttime light images collected by the defense meteorological satellite program-operational linescan system sensors as a proxy data source for human activities (HAs). After calibration, a time series analysis method is used to study the distribution and intensity of the changes in HAs after an earthquake. We consider the Haiti earthquake an example to analyze the HA sequence patterns and the aggregation patterns of the HA centers. The results show the following: (1) postearthquake recovery and reconstruction efforts led to increases in the long-term HAs, but the level of increased HA was usually low. (2) The level of postearthquake HAs in the most affected areas (seismic intensity zone VIII+) increased, whereas the postearthquake HAs in severely affected areas (seismic intensity zones VI and VII) were more fragmented. (3) The recovery of HAs in seismic intensity zone VIII+ (mainly Port-au-Prince) required 2 years, but the actual time may be far longer. (C) 2019 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE)
In 1906, an earthquake with a magnitude estimated between M-w 8.4 and 8.8 occurred in the subduction zone along the coast of Ecuador and Colombia. This earthquake caused extensive damage on the coast but had a rather small impact on the capital city of Quito, situated 180 km away. At that time, the city of Quito extended over a small area with a few thousand inhabitants, while today it stretches over 40 km and has a population of over 3 million, with most of the city built without paraseismic regulations. The aim of this study is to obtain new insights on the impact that large earthquakes from the subduction zone would have on the city today. This question is crucial since we know that the city of Quito is prone to site effects and that the southern part of the city amplifies seismic waves at low frequencies, around 0.3-0.4 Hz. In April 2016, an M-w 7.8 earthquake occurred on the subduction interface in the Pedernales area. This event was the first large earthquake in the city of Quito to be well recorded by 13 stations of the permanent accelerometric network (RENAC). In this study, we take advantage of this data set (main shock and large aftershock recordings) to (1) test an empirical Green's function blind simulation approach where the input stress drop is taken from a global catalogue of source time functions, (2) compare the synthetic accelerograms and ground motion values we obtain for an M-w 7.8 earthquake with the actual recordings of the Pedernales earthquake and then (3) simulate larger earthquakes of M-w 8.2 and 8.5 from the subduction zone. For M-w 7.8 simulations, our approach allows a good reproduction of the ground motions in the whole frequency bands and properly takes into account site effects. For M-w 8.2 and 8.5 simulations, we obtain for the stations in the southern part of the basin, larger values at low frequencies than the predicted motion given by ground motion models. These values, although high, should be supported by new or recent buildings if they are constructed respecting the building code that applies in Quito. Therefore, for this type of strong but distant earthquake, the seismic standards appear to be well suited and it is imperative to ensure that they are well considered in the design of the new buildings to be constructed, especially in the southern part of the expanding city.
In the article seismic events of tectonic and technogenic nature in Central Kazakhstan are considered. The characteristic of seismic monitoring of the territory of this region by the seismic network of the Institute of Geophysical Investigations of the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan is given. The new instrumental level of monitoring made it possible to obtain and study preliminary statistics on tectonic earthquakes, explosions in quarries, mines, and other technogenic events in Central Kazakhstan, as well as data on the stress-strain state of the deepest parts of the earth's crust. A retrospective analysis of the features of the manifestation of foci of tectonic and technogenic seismicity on the platform structures of Central Kazakhstan is presented. The parameters of earthquakes in this region, the judgments about the nature of the mechanism of earthquake foci and the types of tectonic movements, maps of isoseism are constructed. At the same time, it is shown that, in spite of tangible progress in the study of seismic events in Central Kazakhstan, some technical and methodological issues have not been developed in the long run, and work on this continues.
Millions of tons of debris can be generated by natural disasters, impacting the surrounding environment and posing health risks to the public. Proper handling and treatment of such waste is essential to overcome potential hazards as well as to reduce the burden on natural resources during the reconstruction phase. Disaster waste management can have social, economic, and environmental benefits if planned effectively. This mini-review focuses on the destruction caused and debris generated by the 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake in Japan. In addition, it elaborates upon the treatment of debris in Kumamoto at temporary and secondary storage sites by segregation and the adoption of a full-scale recycling system. It also shows that cooperative networks involving numerous organizations are important in managing a large amount of disaster waste. Finally, it presents comparative discussions of different aspects of disaster waste management in the Kumamoto Earthquake event and other disasters. The experience gained from the Kumamoto Earthquake is important for future disaster waste management planning.
We develop a random forest (RF) model for rapid earthquake location with an aim to assist earthquake early warning (EEW) systems in fast decision making. This system exploits P-wave arrival times at the first five stations recording an earthquake and computes their respective arrival time differences relative to a reference station (i.e., the first recording station). These differential P-wave arrival times and station locations are classified in the RF model to estimate the epicentral location. We train and test the proposed algorithm with an earthquake catalog from Japan. The RF model predicts the earthquake locations with high accuracy, achieving a mean absolute error (MAE) of 2.88 km. As importantly, the proposed RF model can learn from a limited amount of data (i.e., 10% of the dataset) and much fewer (i.e., three) recording stations and still achieve satisfactory results (MAE < 5 km). The algorithm is accurate, generalizable, and rapidly responding, thereby offering a powerful new tool for fast and reliable source-location prediction in EEW.
Interpretation of surface fault scarps and palaeoseismic trenches is a key component of estimating fault slip rates, earthquake recurrence rates and maximum magnitudes for hazard assessments. Often these analyses rely on the assumption that successive earthquakes all breached the surface and that the ruptures are recorded topographically, or by the deposits exposed in a trench. The M(w)7.2 1992 Suusamyr earthquake, Kyrgyzstan, is an apparently problematic case for such analyses because its ruptures show significant displacement but are only mapped as having broken the surface along small, disparate portions of the fault. Here we present the results of surveys conducted along the Suusamyr Fault to establish whether that is the case. Two sets of ruptures were identified following the earthquake. They are unusually short for their displacement and are separated by a 25 km gap. Using satellite imagery, high-resolution digital elevation models and palaeoseismic trenching we first reassess the distribution of the 1992 ruptures and then reconstruct the Holocene earthquake record to establish the extent to which the 1992 earthquake is representative of the rupture behaviour of this fault. We find evidence for at least two prehistoric surface rupturing earthquakes in the Holocene: one similar to 3 ka and one >8 ka that, along with the modern event, gives recurrence intervals of similar to 3 and similar to 5 kyr. Within spatial gaps between segments of the 1992 ruptures there are clear prehistoric surface ruptures and the ruptures in each prehistoric earthquake were discontinuous. We conclude that there is significant variability in the surface rupture pattern of successive earthquakes on the Suusamyr Fault, with implications for the completeness of palaeoseismic records obtained from thrust scarps.
Our understanding of earthquake sources is limited by the availability and the quality of observations and the fidelity of our physical models. Uncertainties in our physical models will naturally bias our inferences of subsurface fault slip. These uncertainties will always persist to some level as we will never have a perfect knowledge of the Earth's interior. The choice of the forward physics is thus ambiguous, with the frequent need to fix the value of several parameters such as crustal properties or fault geometry. Here, we explore the impact of uncertainties related to the choice of both fault geometry and elastic structure, as applied to the 2016M(w) 6.2 Amatrice earthquake, central Italy. This event, well instrumented and characterized by a relatively simple fault morphology, allows us to explore the role of uncertainty in basic fault parameters, such as fault dip and position. We show that introducing uncertainties in fault geometry in a static inversion reduces the sensitivity of inferred models to different geometric assumptions. Accounting for uncertainties thus helps infer more realistic and robust slip models. We also show that uncertainties in fault geometry and Earth's elastic structure significantly impact estimated source models, particularly if near-fault observations are available.
Throughout historical times, human habitation in the Near East was limited by its arid climate to sites with strategic advantages. These sites underwent millennia of recurring destruction and rebuilding, resulting in the accumulation of artificial mounds, known as 'Tells', consisting of multiple archeological debris strata of ruined cities, which could pile up to a height of a few tens of meters. Intensity-based magnitude evaluation of Near East historical earthquakes often utilizes reported damage from cities built on earlier archeological mounds. Moreover, old residential quarters of many modern Near Eastern cities are founded on such mounds. In this study we measured the subsurface shear-wave velocity (Vs) profile on top of a typical mound structure as well as the Vs profile of the bedrock on which the mound was accumulated. The results suggest that the mound structure is likely to amplify seismic ground motions. These results imply that intensity-based magnitude evaluation of Near East historical earthquakes that are based on reported damage from cities built on archeological mounds, might be biased and could lead to overestimations of past earthquake magnitudes. Furthermore, many old residential quarters of modern Near Eastern cities are commonly founded on such mounds and might be exposed to a higher seismic hazard than nearby modern neighborhoods, thus requiring special attention in seismic hazard mitigation programs and seismic design.
A landslide susceptibility map, which describes the quantitative relationship between known landslides and control factors, is essential to link the theoretical prediction with practical disaster reduction measures. In this work, the artificial neural network (ANN) model, a promising tool for mapping landslide susceptibility, was adopted to evaluate the coseismic landslide susceptibility affected by the 2013 Minxian, Gansu, China, Mw5.9 earthquake. The evaluation was based on the landslide inventory of this event containing 6479 landslides, and the terrain, geological and seismic factors from database available. During the analyses, two ANN models were applied: considering the entire factors aforementioned (CS model) and excluding seismic factors above (ES model). The success and predictive rates of ANN models and the cumulative percentage curves of susceptibility maps obtained from the models all indicate that the CS model has a relatively better performance than the ES model. However, the comparison of overlapping susceptibility areas suggests that 52.8% of the very high susceptibility areas derived from the CS model coincide with the ES model; and for the very low susceptibility areas, this proportion is 73.55%. Thus, it can be concluded that the assessment based on existing earthquake-induced landslides and the ES model could provide better background information for seismic landslide susceptibility mapping and disaster prevention.
We investigated temporal changes in the waveforms of S-coda from triggered earthquakes around the Moriyoshi-zan volcano in northeastern Japan. Seismicity in the area has drastically increased after the 2011 off the Pacific coast of Tohoku earthquake, forming the largest cluster to the north of the volcano. We analyzed distinct scattered wave packets (DSW) that are S-to-S scattered waves from the mid-crust and appeared predominantly at the high frequency range. We first investigated the variation of DSW for event groups with short inter-event distances and high cross-correlation coefficients (CC) in the time window of direct waves. Despite the above restriction, DSW showed temporal changes in their amplitudes and shapes. The change occurred gradually in some cases, but temporal trends were much more complicated in many cases. We also found that the shape of DSW changed in a very short period of time, for example, within similar to 12 h. Next, we estimated the location of the origin of the DSW (DSW origin) by applying the semblance analysis to the data of the temporary small-aperture array deployed to the north of the largest cluster of triggered events. The DSW origin is located between the largest cluster within which hypocentral migration had occurred and the low-velocity zone depicted by a tomographic study. This spatial distribution implies that the DSW origin was composed of geofluid-accumulated midway in the upward fluid movement from the low-velocity zone to the earthquake cluster. Though we could not entirely exclude the possibility of the effect of the event location and focal mechanisms, the temporal changes in DSW waveforms possibly reflect the temporal changes in scattering properties in and/or near the origin. The quick change in DSW waveforms implies that fast movement of geofluid can occur at the depth of the mid-crust.
Earthquake prediction is an important and complex task in the real world. Although many data mining-based methods have been proposed to solve this problem, the prediction accuracy is still far from satisfactory due to the deficiency of feature extraction techniques. To this end, in this paper, we propose a precursory pattern-based feature extraction method to enhance the performance of earthquake prediction. Especially, the raw seismic data is firstly divided into fixed day time periods, and the magnitude of the largest earthquake in each fixed time period is labeled as the main shock. The precursory pattern is a part of the seismic sequence before the main shock, on which the existing mathematical statistic features can be directly generated as seismic indicators. Based on these precursory pattern-based features, a simple yet effective classification and regression tree algorithm is adopted to predict the label of the main shock in a predefined future time period. The experimental results on two historical earthquake records of the Changding-Garze and Wudu-Mabian seismic zones of China demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed precursory pattern-based features with the selected CART algorithm for earthquake prediction.
To improve our understanding of the long-term behavior of low-frequency earthquakes (LFEs) along the tremor belt of the Nankai subduction zone, we applied a matched filter technique to continuous seismic data recorded by a dense and highly sensitive seismic network over an 11-year window, April 2004 to August 2015. We detected a total of similar to 510,000 LFEs, or similar to 23 x the number of LFEs in the JMA catalog for the same period. During long-term slow slip events (SSEs) in the Bungo Channel, a series of migrating LFE bursts intermittently occurred along the fault-strike direction, with slow hypocenter propagation. Elastic energy released by long-term SSEs appears to control the extent of LFE activity. We identify slowly migrating fronts of LFEs during major episodic tremor and slip (ETS) events, which extend over distances of up to 100 km and follow diffusion-like patterns of spatial evolution with a diffusion coefficient of similar to 10(4) m(2)/s. This migration pattern closely matches the spatio-temporal evolution of tectonic tremors reported by previous studies. At shorter distances, up to 15 km, we discovered rapid diffusion-like migration of LFEs with a coefficient of similar to 10(5) m(2)/s. We also recognize that rapid migration of LFEs occurred intermittently in many streaks during major ETS episodes. These observations suggest that slow slip transients contain a multitude of smaller, temporally clustered fault slip events whose evolution is controlled by a diffusional process.
It has been 15 years since the catastrophic 2005 Kashmir Mw 7.6 earthquake induced thousands of landslides in northern Pakistan and Kashmir. There have been many studies on various aspects of the landslides triggered by the earthquake, such as the mechanisms of individual large landslides, regional seismic landslide inventory mapping, spatial distribution pattern, susceptibility and hazard assessment, and landslide evolution, which provide beneficial scientific results. However, there is currently no summary and generalization of these studies for ready use of the researchers to fully understand the information of the landslide caused by the earthquake. This study comprehensively reviews and summarizes the important results obtained from published data on the landslides. The seismogenic and regional active faults, fragile lithological condition, heavy rainfall, anthropogenic activities, and steep terrain were considered as main controlling factors for the landslide occurrence. Studies on landslide evolution reveal that vegetation on most of the landslides was partially recovered after the earthquake, while slope failures along roads and drainages increased. In the affected area, landslides are still a great threat to communication networks and communities. Despite many past studies, there is still a need or in-depth research using more precise methods to understand the mechanism, hazard, and risk assessment, numerical simulation, landslide risk management and mitigation, and continuous or temporal monitoring of landslides in the affected area. Combined with high-quality data on landslides triggered by other earthquake events in recent years, the study points out the prospects of Kashmir earthquake-induced landslides and summarizes the future challenges of earthquake-triggered landslides research, including accuracy of inventories, the precision of landslide, susceptibility methods, prevention and control of landslide, and landslide hazards and risk assessment. This review can provide a reasonable scientific research and disaster prevention and mitigation strategy and scheme for landslides triggered by a large earthquake in the future.
Cascade-up and/or slow-slip processes are commonly believed to control interactions between foreshocks, mainshocks and aftershocks, but their relative contributions remain poorly resolved. Discrimination between these processes will shed light on the understanding of earthquake physics, which requires exceptional observations of earthquake sequences. The well-recorded July 2019 Ridgecrest, California foreshock-mainshock-aftershock earthquake sequence provides such an opportunity. We perform simultaneous inversion of the July 4th M-W 6.4 foreshock and July 5th M-W 7.1 mainshock kinematic rupture models using SAR, strong motion, and GPS data. We also invert for afterslip models following the M-W 6.4 foreshock and the mainshock, respectively, by developing an inversion method that utilizes strainmeter, SAR and daily GPS time series. The inversion results show that the overall sequence involves no less than six fault segments, which include a main northwest-trending fault and secondary faults with sub-parallel and orthogonal geometry to the main fault. Co-seismic slip and afterslip have complementary patterns on the faults. During the early post-seismic period following the M-W 6.4 foreshock and the mainshock, moment release on the southwest-trending fault is dominated by aseismic slip, in contrast to the predominantly seismic slip on the northwest-trending fault. The mainshock appears to be triggered by a cascade migration of foreshocks on a northwest-trending fault. Slip on the southwest-trending fault migrates from the fault junction at the northeast end (following the M-W 6.4 foreshock) to the southwest end (following the mainshock) during the afterslip interval. The dual-mode (seismic versus aseismic) slip phenomena appear to be driven by co-seismic stress changes produced by the major events. (C) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
During the Maduo Earthquake (MDEq) (M-w, 7.3), which occurred on 22 May 2021 in the northern Tibetan Plateau, coseismic surface ruptures, numerous land liquefaction instances and landslides, were triggered along the NW strike of the similar to 160 km long aftershock zone. We performed three times emergency field surveys (22 May to 3 Jun., 28 Jun. to 14 Jul., 8 24 Oct., 2021) with unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) orthophoto and digital elevation model (DEM) data. We found a discontinuous coseismic surface rupture zone along with loose sediment, severe sand liquefaction regions with an area of similar to 10(3) km(2) along the Yellow River and its tributaries. More than 23 coseismic landslides had been checked with relative small-size volume for limited local terrain relief. Three of those landslides had relatively small source areas and volumes and affected relatively large areas. We identified numerous tension cracks in and around the trailing edges, which could trigger more landslides in the future. Further detailed research into the occurrence of these three landslides will reveal the failure mechanism of the earthquake (shaking)-freeze-thaw effect-rainfall disaster chain. Here, we present basic information to aid the overall understanding of the preliminary characteristics of coseismic earthquake-triggered landslides, sand liquefaction, and possible follow-up disasters.
BackgroundOn September 28th, 2018, at 18:02 local time (10:02 UTC), a strong earthquake of magnitude Mw=7.5 struck Central Sulawesi Province, Indonesia. The epicenter was located at 0.256(o) south latitude and 119.846(o) east longitude, around 77km from Palu city, and 20km below the ground surface. To understand the damage caused by the earthquake, and find a solution to mitigate the geo-disasters in Indonesia, a preliminary investigation on the 2018 Sulawesi earthquake was conducted from 16 to 20 November 2018. This quick report focuses on ground displacements induced by fault movement and large-scale ground flow.ResultsDuring the survey, there is some geotechnical damage were found, such as ground displacement induced by fault movement, liquefaction, landslides, and large-scale ground flow in some certain areas. Large ground displacement was found in some particular areas, such as Kedondong, Pipa Air, Pangeran Diponegoro and Cemara streets in Palu city. The earthquake also triggered large-scale ground flow in some different sites, such as Balaroa and Petobo districts in Palu city and Jono Oge and Sibalaya Villages.ConclusionsThe locations of large ground displacements appeared at surface coincide well with the estimated fault line. Therefore the large ground displacements were seems to be induced by the fault movement. Large ground flow caused severe damage to not only human but also houses and buildings. The mechanism of the large ground flow should be clarified in near future.
Industrial production activities associated with salt mining, hydraulic fracturing, or geothermal exploitation can induce pore pressure and stress field changes, thus inducing seismic activity. Most of the events are not disastrous due to limited energy radiated. Here we report a Mw 5.8 damaging event that occurred in Changning, China on June 17, 2019, probably the largest induced event by industrial exploitation ever recorded. The earthquake is located within the Changning anticline, and it raises great concerns on why and how the event occurred in a relatively quiescent area in terms of tectonic activity. Moreover, it has been debated whether this earthquake ruptured solely on the fold-accommodation faults or also involved a deep-rooted fault under the anticline. By using InSAR data from two satellites, we investigate the detailed rupture and slip pattern of this earthquake. We propose a cascade rupture mode of the fold-accommodation faults, through poroelastic modeling of excess pore pressure by fluid injection and pumping operations and static Coulomb stress calculation on the pre-stressed faults. We argue that water injections may have triggered this event. The result highlights the importance of reassessing seismic hazard over similar tectonic environments with intensive industrial exploitation.
On July 1, 2009, a M-w 6.45 earthquake ruptured south of Crete Island (Greece) along the Hellenic Arc triggering a local tsunami. Eyewitness reported the tsunami from Myrtos and Arvi (south-eastern Crete) and from the north of Chrisi Islet, located to the southeast of Crete. The earthquake occurred offshore, about 80 km south of Crete, where routine earthquake locations are poor. The hypocentre is relocated using a 2-D velocity model and several local 1-D velocity models. Epicentral locations obtained by using the different velocity models show very minor variations. Instead, relocated hypocentres can be grouped into two sets of solutions: (1) those with a shallower depth (depth <12 km) obtained with the 2-D velocity model and the 1-D velocity models having a shallower Moho at less than 30 km, and (2) those with a larger depth (depth of 28 and 40 km) obtained with the velocity models having a Moho at about 40 km. Shallower hypocentres are more consistent with the tsunamigenic nature of the earthquake as also supported by tsunami numerical simulations. In fact, shallow sources (depths < 12 km) are capable of generating tsunami waves, while it is not the case for deeper sources (depth > 25 km) either in the upper-plate or along the plate interface. Models accounting for either homogeneous or heterogeneous slip on the causative fault are tested, with the heterogeneous one better reproducing the observations in terms of number of tsunami waves reaching the shoreline and duration of the sea disturbance. The short travel time, about 10 min, of the first tsunami arrival at the southern coast of Crete represents a big challenge for tsunami early warning systems operating in the area.
The 2020 Samos, M7.0 earthquake was characterized by an unusual bi-modal-type distribution of damage: limited damage in the nearfield (especially northern Samos coast) and serious localized damage in multi-story buildings in the far field (Izmir area). This pattern is not consistent with the typical distribution of isoseismal lines, and it seems not to represent an isolated effect; the 2014 Samothraki- Gokceada M6.9 earthquake, for example, may in fact represent a parallel, though at smaller scale. For this reason, the damage pattern of the Samos earthquake may characterize historical earthquakes in the wider region, and perhaps explain, among others, some apparently large meizoseismal areas of historical earthquakes. Furthermore, the fact that damage in a part of the Izmir area occurred under moderate background acceleration has important implications for various ancient, long-period structures, especially monumental Greek and Roman multi-block columns and temples. These structures are highly resistant to seismic loads and difficult to fail under common earthquakes. However, evidence from the Izmir area indicates that, under certain conditions, common background accelerations can be highly amplified and leave their traces in such structures, for example in the Heraion temple at Samos.
The San Diego-Tijuana Earthquake Planning Scenario Project is an update of the 1990 Earthquake Scenario developed for the San Diego (United States)-Tijuana (Mexico) Region. The project is led by the EERI (Earthquake Engineering Research Institute) San Diego Chapter and includes the participation of about 100 contributors and stakeholders including organizations and individuals from both sides of the border. The San Diego-Tijuana region includes over five million residents, making it the largest bi-national conurbation shared between USA and Mexico, the second-largest shared between USA and another country, and the fourth largest in the world. Over 50 million people cross the border each year between Tijuana and San Diego, giving the region the busiest land-border crossing in the world. The scenario earthquake is based on a mag- nitude 6.9 strike slip earthquake on the Rose Canyon fault; the main seismic source of the region. The scenario earthquake would produce up to 2 m of strike slip surface fault rupture. The USGS developed ShakeMaps including spectral accelerations and other intensity measures. With the ground motions defined for the region, groundwater depth and liquefaction susceptibility zones were created for use in Hazus software-based loss estimates. Onshore and offshore scenario earthquake-induced potential landslides were also studied, and special attention was paid to a possible offshore Coronado Canyon submarine landslide capable of producing a tsunami affecting San Diego Bay and the international border area. This paper discusses the methodologies used in assessing these hazards and presents the results which are being applied in the scenario earthquake study.
A tsunami earthquake is an earthquake event that generates abnormally high tsunami waves considering the amplitude of the seismic waves. These abnormally high waves relative to the seismic wave amplitude are related to the longer rupture duration of such earthquakes compared with typical events. Rapid magnitude estimation is essential for the timely issuance of effective tsunami warnings for tsunami earthquakes. For local events, event magnitude estimated from the observed displacement amplitudes of the seismic waves, which can be obtained before estimation of the seismic moment, is often used for the first tsunami warning. However, because the observed displacement amplitude is approximately proportional to the moment rate, conventional magnitudes of tsunami earthquakes estimated based on the seismic wave amplitude tend to underestimate the event size. To overcome this problem, we investigated several methods of magnitude estimation, including magnitudes based on long-period displacement, integrated displacement, and multiband amplitude distribution. We tested the methods using synthetic waveforms calculated from finite fault models of tsunami earthquakes. We found that methods based on observed amplitudes could not estimate magnitude properly, but the method based on the multiband amplitude distribution gave values close to the moment magnitude for many tsunami earthquakes. In this method, peak amplitudes of bandpass filtered waveforms are compared with those of synthetic records for an assumed source duration and fault mechanism. We applied the multiband amplitude distribution method to the records of events that occurred around the Japanese Islands and to those of tsunami earthquakes, and confirmed that this method could be used to estimate event magnitudes close to the moment magnitudes.
We model the time-dependent postseismic displacements following the 2001 Mw7.8 Kokoxili earthquake, including both GPS (2001-2002 for near-field and 2001-2010 for far-field) and descending-track InSAR line-of-sight time series (2003-2010) to study three postseismic deformation processes. The predicted deformation patterns and magnitude from poroelastic rebound are inconsistent with the geodetic observations. Far-field postseismic deformation (>200 km from rupture) is primarily induced by upper mantle viscoelastic relaxation beneath Tibet and the Qaidam Basin and places a lower bound on transient and steady-state viscosities on the order of 10(19)-10(20) Pas. Shallow stress-driven afterslip (<20 km) on the Kunlun Pass fault localizes deformation in the near-fault area and helps explain the GPS-measured displacement gradient across the fault. Deep stress-driven afterslip in the downdip region of the coseismic rupture (>20 km) has an amplitude of similar to 1 m during the first 3 years. Our results indicate that the consideration of deep afterslip increases our estimates of transient viscosity of the lower crust beneath Tibet and the Qaidam basin for this earthquake by as much as a factor of three. Our combined model incorporating viscoelastic relaxation and afterslip suggests that the effective transient and steady-state viscosities in the Tibetan lower crust are 5 x 10(18) Pas and 4 x 10(19) Pas, respectively (transient viscosity = 2 x 10(18) Pas without afterslip considered), while the effective transient and steady-state viscosities below the Qaidam Basin area are 1 x 10(19) Pas and 6 x 10(19) Pas (transient viscosity = 4 x 10(18) Pas without afterslip considered).
Background Iran has experienced an increasing number of earthquake in the past three decades. Nurses are the largest group of healthcare providers that play an important role in responding to disasters. Based on previous studies, they experienced challenges providing care in the previous disasters. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the nursing challenges to provide care to the injured in the Kermanshah earthquake, Iran. Methods This is a qualitative study with conventional content analysis using Granheim and Landman approach. In this study, 16 nurses involved in providing care to the injured in the Kermanshah earthquake were selected by purposeful sampling method. Data were collected using in-depth semi-structured interviews. The criteria proposed by Guba and Lincoln were used to ensure the validity of the study. Results Data analysis led to the emergence of 453 primary codes, 14 subcategories, and 5 categories. The five categories were as follows: (a) organizational and managerial challenges; (b) human resources; (c) infrastructure; (d) educational preparations; (e) and ethical. Conclusions The results of this study showed that nurses faced several challenges in providing care to earthquake victims. Based on these findings, better educational management and planning, infrastructure reform, and establishment of a crisis nursing national team seem necessary.
Disaster impacts the affected population both physically and psychosocially. Due to an overemphasis on rehabilitation and response to the physical damages, the psychosocial impacts are neglected in most disaster scenarios. This study analyzes the experiences from the Gorkha earthquake of 2015 in Nepal, and its adverse psychosocial impacts among the affected population. The main objectives of the study were (1) to investigate the factors affecting psychosocial health; (2) to find its impact on the people's work; (3) to explore the traumatic experiences and insecurities faced by the victims; and (4) to study the pre-existing social problems. Using a conceptual framework, the study followed a mixed-methods approach using both quantitative and qualitative tools for data collection and analysis. The major findings involve the negative impacts upon the social setup and mental health in Nepal, including higher suicide rates, physical abuse, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), aggression among the males, and uncertainty. The absence of government support and assistance enhanced the overall psychosocial impact on the affected population.
The behavior of slip close to the trench during earthquakes is not well understood, and observations of large earthquakes breaking the near trench fault surface are rare. The 1995 M-w 8.0 Jalisco earthquake seems to have broken the near-trench area, as evidenced by large M-s-M-w disparity, small high-frequency radiated energy compared to total energy, and low E-r/M-0 ratios, in addition to several finite slip models showing large slip near the trench. However, slip models obtained using campaign Global Positioning System data suggest slip near shore. In this study we try to answer whether this event was a near-trench event or not, by inverting teleseismic P, S, Rayleigh, and Love waves, as well as campaign Global Positioning System static offsets, either separately or jointly, to obtain the slip distribution on the fault as a function of time. We find two possible end-member scenarios consistent with observed data: (1) coseismic slip distributed between coast and trench and no (or very little) postseismic slip and (2) coseismic slip principally near the trench with large (up to 1.8 m) aseismic slip occurring in the first 5-10 days after the earthquake, with a total moment corresponding to 16% of that of the event. We are unable to distinguish between these two end-member scenarios by tsunami modeling and finally are neither able to conclude or exclude that the event was a typical near trench event.
The moderate-size 2010 Yushu earthquake (Mw 6.9) caused severe seismic damage around the source region which is situated on the sparsely populated hinterland of the Tibetan Plateau. But until now the mechanisms have not been well understood. To this end, we constructed the model to simulate the fault spontaneous rupture propagation, in which the realistic fault with a curved bend is imbedded. Our modeling results show that the special fault geometry controlled the rupture behavior, which encouraged rupture propagation speed transition from subshear to supershear with the speed of 5.17 km/s larger than the local shear wave velocity. Moreover, calculation results demonstrated that strong ground motion acceleration was greatly intensified by supershear ruptures, leading to widespread destruction. This may be the main reason why serious earthquake damage happened in the Yushu earthquake. In particular, we can see from numerous numerical experiments that rupture styles will be different if geometries of fault are varied. It is confirmed that it is the special geometry of the seismogenic fault of the Yushu mainshock produced grave seismic hazard. Thus, deeply investigating fault geometry will be helpful to better understand seismic source process and seismic hazard assessment.
On December 7, 2012, an earthquake occurred within the Pacific Plate near the Japan Trench, which was composed of deep reverse- and shallow normal-faulting subevents (Mw 7.2 and 7.1, respectively) with a time interval of similar to 10 s. It had been known that the stress state within the plate was characterized by shallow tensile and deep horizontal compressional stresses due to the bending of the plate (bending stress). This study estimates the fault model of the doublet earthquake utilizing tsunami, teleseismic, and aftershock data and discusses the stress state within the incoming plate and spatiotemporal changes seen in it after the 2011 Tohoku-Oki earthquake. We obtained the vertical extents of the fault planes of deep and shallow subevents as similar to 45-70 km and similar to 5 (the seafloor)-35 km, respectively. The down-dip edge of the shallow normal-faulting seismic zone (similar to 30-35 km) deepened significantly compared to what it was in 2007 (similar to 25 km). However, a quantitative comparison of the brittle strength and bending stress suggested that the change in stress after the Tohoku-Oki earthquake was too small to deepen the down-dip end of the seismicity by similar to 10 km. To explain the seismicity that occurred at a depth of similar to 30-35 km, the frictional coefficient in the normal-faulting depth range required would have had to be similar to 0.07 <= mu <= similar to 0.2, which is significantly smaller than the typical friction coefficient. This suggests the infiltration of pore fluid along the bending faults, down to similar to 30-35 km. It is considered that the plate had already yielded to a depth of similar to 35 km before 2011 and that the seismicity of the area was reactivated by the increase in stress from the Tohoku-Oki earthquake.
The 2016 Gyeongju earthquake (M-L 5.8) was the largest instrumentally recorded inland event in South Korea. It occurred in the southeast of the Korean Peninsula and was preceded by a large M-L 5.1 foreshock. The aftershock seismicity data indicate that these earthquakes occurred on two closely collocated parallel faults that are oblique to the surface trace of the Yangsan fault. We investigate the rupture properties of these earthquakes using finite-fault slip inversion analyses. The obtained models indicate that the ruptures propagated NNE-ward and SSW-ward for the main shock and the large foreshock, respectively. This indicates that these earthquakes occurred on right-step faults and were initiated around a fault jog. The stress drops were up to 62 and 43 MPa for the main shock and the largest foreshock, respectively. These high stress drops imply high strength excess, which may be overcome by the stress concentration around the fault jog.
Under the action of Taft ground motion records, the dynamic nonlinear time history analysis of the reinforced concrete frame structure were carried out. The earthquake demands of the reinforced concrete frame structure were given, the importance index of each random variable was obtained by variance importance analysis method of this reinforced concrete frame structure which was solved by Monte Carlo numerical simulation method. The results show that: The importance sorting of random variables, such as yield strength, damping ratio and structural quality was ahead and elasticity modulus of concrete was in the end for most earthquake demands. When analyzing the earthquake demand of reinforced concrete frame structure, we can consider the influence of several random variables, such as the yield strength of steel bar, the damping ratio and the structural quality. The calculation and analysis above may be helpful for improving the calculation efficiency of the analysis of earthquake demands.
Mainland France is characterized by low-to-moderate seismic activity, yet it is known that major earthquakes could strike this territory (e.g., Liguria in 1887 or Basel in 1356). Assessing this French seismic hazard is thus necessary in order to support building codes and to lead prevention actions towards the population. The Probabilistic Seismic Hazard Assessment (PSHA) is the classical approach used to estimate the seismic hazard. One way to apply PSHA is to generate synthetic earthquakes by propagating information from past seismicity and building various seismic scenarios. In this paper, we present an implementation of a stochastic generator of earthquakes and discuss its relevance to mimic the seismicity of low-to-moderate seismic areas. The proposed stochastic generator produces independent events (main shocks) and their correlated seismicity (only aftershocks). Main shocks are simulated first in time and magnitude considering all available data in the area, and then localized in space with the use of a probability map and regionalization. Aftershocks are simulated around main shocks by considering both the seismic moment ratio and distribution of the aftershock's proportion. The generator is tested with mainland France data.
On June 17, 2019, an M(s)6. 0 earthquake hit the Changning County in Yibin City, the southern margin of Sichuan Basin in the eastern Tibetan Plateau. During the following five days, strong aftershocks of M(s)5. 1, M(s)5. 3 and M(s)5. 4 occurred successively. On July 4, 2019, another M(s)5. 6 earthquake occurred at Gongquan Town in Gongxian. During these events, 13 people and more than 200 people were killed and injured, respectively. A large number of houses were damaged, resulting in heavy casualties and property losses. Based on the seismic data provided by Sichuan Regional Seismic Network, we relocated the early events of the M(s)6. 0 Changning earthquake sequence from June 17 to 22, 2019 by using the multi-stage location method. Meanwhile, the focal mechanism solutions and centroid depths of 16 M-s >= 3. 6 earthquakes before 4 July 2019 were also calculated by using the CAP inversion method. Finally, the seismogenic structure of the sequence is preliminarily analyzed. The distribution of relocated 610 M-L >= 1. 5 events shows that the aftershock area is 25 km long and 5 km wide in a NW-SE trending. The focal depths range from 0 to 10 km and the mean depth is about 3. 2 km, the total sequence is deep in the west and shallow in the east. The M(s)6. 0 Changning earthquake is located at the southeastern end of the aftershock zone, showing its unilateral rupture behavior. The focal mechanism solutions show that the seismogenic structure system of the sequence was dominated by thrust and oblique thrust faulting mode; the centroid depths of 16 M-s >= 3. 6 earthquakes are within 1 similar to 7 km, and the average depth is about 3. 5 km, which is consistent with the relocation result. This observation reveals that the Changning earthquake sequence occurred in the shallow part of the upper crust. Based on the spatial distribution of the sequence, focal mechanism solutions and structural characteristics of the seismogenic area, it is inferred that the occurrence of the M(s)6. 0 Changning earthquake sequence may be related to the Baixiangyan-Shizitan anticline and the Shuanghechang anticline and their associated fault activities. This structure is belonging to the complex Changning-Shuanghe anticlines. The three Gongxian events with M(s)5. 1 on 17 June, M(s)5. 4 on 22 June, and M(s)5. 6 on 4 July which are located along the northwestern segment of the aftershock area, should be caused by the associated fault activity of the Baixiangyan-Shizitan anticline triggered by the M(s)6. 0 Changning earthquake. The tectonic deformation of the seismogenic structure for the Changning earthquake sequence generally presents the characteristics of a large NE-SW component of compression with a small NW-SE extensional component, significantly different from that in the southern area with the NW-SE compression and NE-SW extension characteristics derived from the 16 December 2018 Ms5. 7 Xingwen and the 3 January 2019 M(s)5.3 Gongxian events. Our study reveals that the southern margin of the Sichuan Basin is in a tectonic deformation transition region, the change of tectonic environment leads to the complexity of tectonic deformation characteristics in the seismogenic area of the Changning earthquake sequence and its adjacent regions.
Between 2006 and 2020, earthquakes and other geohazards on volcano-dotted Java Island have caused about 7000 deaths, and another 1.8 million people were injured, displaced, or left homeless. In this study, we quantify the current state of earthquake hazard for 29 cities of Java, using seismicity statistics of a cumulative number of small events (natural times) between pairs of large earthquakes. This approach, known as earthquake nowcasting (Rundle et al., 2016), rests on the key concepts of elastic rebound and ergodic dynamics in earthquake fault networks. Our analysis of statistical inference shows that the estimated earthquake potential score (EPS) as on February 18, 2021 corresponding to M >= 6.5 events in a 300 km circular area ranges from 43 to 94%, with the scores of Jakarta (43), Surabaya (89), Bandung (69), Semarang (48), Serang (47), and Yogyakarta (59). This means, for example, that Surabaya has progressed significantly in the regional cycle of large earthquakes, whereas Yogyakarta is about midway in its seismic cycle. We observe that a change in magnitude threshold or geographic area has a consistent impact on the nowcast scores. These findings not only enable a rapid yet meaningful way to rank several cities based on their current exposure to earthquake hazards, but also empower earthquake scientists and policymakers towards better policymaking, land-use planning, earthquake insurance, disaster risk mitigation, and social awareness with respect to the seismically active island of Java.
A driving stress of theM(w)5.8 reverse-faulting Awaji Island earthquake (2013), southwest Japan, was investigated using focal mechanism solutions of earthquakes before and after the mainshock. The seismic records from regional high-sensitivity seismic stations were used. Further, the stress tensor inversion method was applied to infer the stress fields in the source region. The results of the stress tensor inversion and the slip tendency analysis revealed that the stress field within the source region deviates from the surrounding area, in which the stress field locally contains a reverse-faulting component with ENE-WSW compression. This local fluctuation in the stress field is key to producing reverse-faulting earthquakes. The existing knowledge on regional-scale stress (tens to hundreds of km) cannot predict the occurrence of the Awaji Island earthquake, emphasizing the importance of estimating local-scale (< tens of km) stress information. It is possible that the local-scale stress heterogeneity has been formed by local tectonic movement, i.e., the formation of flexures in combination with recurring deep aseismic slips. The coseismic Coulomb stress change, induced by the disastrous 1995M(w)6.9 Kobe earthquake, increased along the fault plane of the Awaji Island earthquake; however, the postseismic stress change was negative. We concluded that the gradual stress build-up, due to the interseismic plate locking along the Nankai trough, overcame the postseismic stress reduction in a few years, pushing the Awaji Island earthquake fault over its failure threshold in 2013. The observation that the earthquake occurred in response to the interseismic plate locking has an important implication in terms of seismotectonics in southwest Japan, facilitating further research on the causal relationship between the inland earthquake activity and the Nankai trough earthquake. Furthermore, this study highlighted that the dataset before the mainshock may not have sufficient information to reflect the stress field in the source region due to the lack of earthquakes in that region. This is because the earthquake fault is generally locked prior to the mainshock. Further research is needed for estimating the stress field in the vicinity of an earthquake fault via seismicity before the mainshock alone.
Limited research exists of teenagers' involvement in the response phase of a natural disaster. There is little, for example on volunteering, and of specifically what motivates teenagers to volunteer and the activities they participate in. Therefore, this study investigated teenagers' involvement and perceptions of volunteering following the 2010-2011 Canterbury, New Zealand, earthquakes. Six focus groups were conducted with 31 teenagers aged 16-18 who had experienced the earthquakes. The data were analyzed using thematic analysis leading to four themes, namely sense of control, sense of purpose, shift in perspective, and restrictions. Findings emphasize the importance of organizing youth-focused volunteer groups, due to volunteering potentially reducing teenagers' psychological distress postdisaster.
A critical review on the quality and quantity of historical and geological sources for ancient earthquakes in Spain is done. Recent critical reviews of the macroseismic catalogue for historical earthquakes of the Spanish National Geographic Institute (IGN; 2002) evidence a fragile reliability on the historical sources for the most ancient earthquakes in the Iberian Peninsula. In fact, after these criticisms the most recent review of the on-line IGN Spanish Catalogue during the year 2017, totally removed all the earthquakes occurred Before the Common Era (BCE) and most of those reported during de first millennia (< 1000 CE). For this last time-span only the Sagunto Earthquake (348 CE) and those documented by Arabic sources in the Cordoba Caliphate after 800 CE remained (9 events). The reasons for this removal is that most of the ancient earthquakes catalogued in Spain are originally documented in Cronica general de Espana written by the historian Florian de Ocampo in 1543, during the kingdom of Carlos I of Spain, who did not refer to older historic documents. However, the research developed for this paper clearly indicates that the work of Ocampo is based on the previous chronicles, such as Estoria de Espana written by the King of Castilla Alphonso X in c. 1280 CE, in turn based on a series of medieval chronicles (881-1236 CE) and on Greco-Roman writers. On the other hand, the seismic history of Spain with only 9 events cataloged before 1000 CE strongly contrast with the growing amount of geological and archaeological data evidencing strong seismic events during the antiquity and roman times. To contrast these different data-sources, ancient key events of the Spanish Catalogue are discussed here, such those occurred in the Pyrenees (880 and 500 BCE), the earthquake-tsunami event in the gulf of Cadiz in 218 BCE) and two earthquakes occurred during the end of the first millennium in Cordoba (881 CE) and northwest of the Iberian Peninsula (939 CE). The virtual absence of earthquakes in Spain before 1000 CE provide an unreal macroseismic scenario for the antiquity. This nearly aseismic scenario contrasts with the about 150 earthquakes (felt) per year catalogued for the period 1500-1800 CE, but also with the growing number of geoamhaeological data on ancient earthquakes in Spain published during the last years.
Anthropogenic induced seismicity has been widely reported and investigated in many regions, including the shale gas fields in the Sichuan basin, where the frequency of earthquakes has increased substantially since the commencement of fracking in late 2014. However, the details of how earthquakes are induced remain poorly understood, partly due to lack of high-resolution spatial-temporal data documenting the evolution of such seismic events. Most previous studies have been based on a diffusive earthquake catalog constructed by routine methods. Here, however, we have constructed a high resolution catalog using a machine learning detector and waveform cross-correlation. Despite limited data, this new approach has detected one-third more earthquakes and improves the magnitude completeness of the catalog, illuminating the comprehensive spatial-temporal migration of the emerging seismicity in the target area. One of the clusters clearly delineates a potential unmapped fault trace that may have led to the M-w 5.2 in September 2019, by far the largest earthquake recorded in the region. The migration of the seismicity also demonstrates a pore-pressure diffusion front, suggesting additional constraints on the inducing mechanism of the region. The patterns of the highly clustered seismicity reconcile the causal link between the emerging seismicity and the activity of hydraulic fracturing in the region, facilitating continued investigation of the mechanisms of seismic induction and their associated risks.
This paper evaluates the mitigation effect of Tokai earthquake measures on housing damage using a counterfactual approach. It focuses on those measures that stimulate ex-ante investment in disaster prevention in the supposedly affected area, including earthquake-proof retrofitting and improved housing construction; the effect of the measures on housing losses is estimated monetarily. The study compares factual disaster damage computed using a real distribution of houses with counterfactual damage to a hypothetical housing distribution that would occur if the measures were not implemented. The key findings are: (i) the disaster mitigation effects of Tokai earthquake measures on housing amount to approximately JPY 18 billion (USD 0.18 billion) for Yamanashi Prefecture and JPY 0.26 trillion (USD 2.6 billion) for Shizuoka Prefecture, which would be at the centre of the event; (ii) a before-after comparison biases estimates of the mitigation effect; and (iii) statistically, the measures do not mitigate the housing damage predicted for an earthquake in Tokai.
Detection of the earliest stages of unrest is one of the most challenging and yet critically needed aspects of volcano monitoring. We investigate a sequence of five unusual long-period (LP) earthquakes that occurred in the days prior to the onset of a months-long volcano-tectonic (VT) earthquake swarm beneath Little Sitkin volcano in the Aleutian Islands during late 2012. The long-period earthquakes had two distinctive characteristics: their signals were dominated by a monochromatic spectral peak at approximately 0.57 Hz and they had impulsive P and S-wave arrivals on a seismometer located on Amchitka Island 80 km to the southeast of the volcano. In each case, the monochromatic earthquakes ended with a higher-frequency event after approximately 2 min of duration. We find evidence that the five monochromatic LP earthquakes resulted from the resonance of a tabular magma body at middle crustal depths (15 km) on the western side of Little Sitkin. Based on the resonant frequency and quality factor of the monochromatic LP earthquakes, we infer the magma body to have a lateral extent of 500 m and a thickness of 9 m. We interpret that a magmatic intrusion excited the monochromatic LP earthquakes and subsequently increased the stress beneath the volcano, leading to the onset of the shallow (<10 km depth) VT swarm five days later.
Landslides are a natural hazard that affects at least 15% of the land area of India (>0.49 million km(2)). Landslide induced due to earthquake is one of the most prevalent seismic hazards, which claims hundreds of lives in the Himalayan hilly terrains of India. Uttarakhand state is among the most seismically active parts of India. The objective of this study is to prepare an earthquake-induced landslide hazard map for the Chamoli district, Uttarakhand. Then, compare and validate with existing landslide database. Relative frequency ratio (RFR) method is used to identify the correlation between landslide occurrence and landslide controlling factors. Landslide hazard index (LHI) is calculated by the weighted linear combination of weight of factors. A total five factors, viz. slope angle, slope aspect, slope curvature, normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and PGA, are used as input geo-factors. CartoDEM and Landsat 8 TM images are considered as basic data source for generating these layers. To assess the earthquake-induced landslide in the considered region, these factors along with landslide inventory are used to calculate ratings and weights. The rating maps were integrated in geographic information system (GIS) to obtain the landslide hazard map. A final landslide hazard map showing five categories, namely very low hazard (VLH), low hazard (LH), moderate hazard (MH), high hazard (HH) and very high hazard (VHH), is presented. The results are important for regional land use planning and disaster risk reduction strategies. The hazard map provides useful information for hazard mitigation and to minimize the impact of earthquake for landslide and efficient planning for evacuation during the disaster. It is the first comprehensive attempt to produce the earthquake-induced landslide hazard map of complete district based on the earthquake-induced landslide inventory using relative frequency ratio method.
Pounding of two adjacent structures is one of the factors that cause damage and hinder sustainable use of reinforced concrete (RC) frame structures under strong ground motion excitations. This study developed a pounding analysis method with a refined beam-column element in order to solve the pounding problem between two RC frame structures. The analysis method combines the fiber beam-column element model with the element sections discretized into concrete and longitudinal rebar fibers, the Hertz-damp contact element model to describe the pounding between beam-column elements, and the method to integrate the pounding force into the system dynamic equilibrium equation. The pounding can be considered either at the level between the story slab to slab or at the level between story slab to mid-column. The application of the proposed method in pounding analyses to provide a rational seismic separation gap between two adjacent RC frame structures is finally conducted to increase their safety and sustainability under strong earthquakes.
We establish an automatic workflow for cataloging foreshocks of the 2019 n6. 0 Changning, Sichuan earthquake from continuous raw seismic data by sequentially applying the transfer learning phase picking, automatic phase association, and traditional earthquake location methods. In the workflow, we first pick seismic P and S picks using a deep-neural-network-based phase picker (PhaseNet). By applying the Rapid Earthquake Association and Location (REAL) method, seismic phases are associated into particular earthquakes, whose locations are preliminarily determined at the same time. Then we further sequentially improve earthquake absolute and relative locations using the VELEST and HYPODD software. We apply this workflow to study foreshocks of the 2019 n6.0 Changning, Sichuan earthquake from June 1 to June 17, 2019. We automatically pick seismic picks from 28 GB continuous waveforms recorded at 21 three-component seismic stations and associate 4358 P phases and 5022 S phases into 1067 earthquakes. We apply the VELEST program to refine their locations, resulting in 870 events after applying critical event selection thresholds based on station gap and travel time residual. At last, 416 earthquakes are relatively relocated by the HYPODD software. Compared with 101 cataloged earthquakes from the Sichuan Earthquake Administration, our absolute VELEST catalog and relative HYPODD catalog can match 85% and 74% of the routine catalog, respectively. The average origin time difference of common events between the absolute VELEST catalog and the routine catalog is 0. 36 0. 07 seconds, the average magnitude difference is MLO. 15-10. 024, and the horizontal location error is 1. 45-10. 028 kilometers. We recover all ML, >1. 5 cataloged earthquakes with consistent location, except for one ML2. 0 event, which was located with large error in the routine catalog. The number of events with ML<1. 0 in our VELEST catalog is more than 8 times than that in the routine catalog. Our earthquake catalog shows that plenty of small foreshocks occurred close to a nearby water injection well for salt mining and the epicenter of the Changning Ms6. 0 mainshock. Thus, we suggest the Ms6. 0 Changning mainshock and its foreshocks are most likely related to salt mining in the region, which is supported by the recent InSAR observations as well. This study demonstrates that our workflow not only enables us to automatically and efficiently detect, locate and associate foreshocks of the n6. 0 Changning earthquake, but also significantly improves the completeness magnitude and extends the detection limit to ML 1.
Large earthquakes in mountainous regions often trigger widespread landslides, some of which remain active for years to decades. This study has evaluated the spatial and temporal evolution of the 2005 Kashmir earthquake-induced landslides using pre-earthquake and post-earthquake landslide inventories. Temporal landslide inventories were developed from the SPOT satellite images, using the visual image interpretation supported with field validation. It is observed that after the earthquake, the landslide area and number showed a surge, however, decays in the subsequent years. The rate of decline in the landslide area was relatively slower until 2010, however, it dropped considerably during 2010-2018. The spatial variation of the landslides was traced and analyzed to classify them based on the activity. The temporal evolution of the landslides was compared with the geology, earthquake triggering fault and topographic attributes of slope, aspect, and elevation, to evaluate their influence on the distribution of landslides. The landslide inventories were related to the major triggering factors including rainfall and earthquakes, to determine their impact on the temporal dynamics of the landslides. Regeneration of vegetation is analyzed using the temporal NDVI images as one of the drivers for the decline in the landslide area. The knowledge of temporal dynamics of landslides and their major contributing factors shall assist to understand their triggering mechanism and effective mitigation measures. (C) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The study aims to investigate the impact of the earthquake on public health, in terms of hospitalizations for respiratory diseases in the Abruzzo region, focusing on the area damaged by the earthquake Crater. We collected data of hospitalizations of residents in Abruzzo between 2009 and 2015. Hospital Discharge Records (HDRs) with a primary diagnosis of respiratory disease were included and divided into pneumonia, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), and respiratory insufficiency. Absolute frequencies and standardized hospitalization rates were calculated to perform both a short-term and a medium-long term analysis. A linear regression was performed using standardized hospitalization rates and the time. A total of 108.669 respiratory-related records were collected and the most frequent subgroup was respiratory insufficiency. Standardized Hospitalization Rates (SHRs) for respiratory diseases resulted higher in the non-Crater than Crater area, but the short-term analysis showed a significant increase in hospitalizations for pneumonia and respiratory insufficiency in the Crater area. The medium-long term analysis reported a significant difference on the slope decrease of hospitalizations for acute and chronic respiratory diseases in the Crater versus the non-Crater area. The earthquake may have played a triggering role in the increased detection of respiratory diseases. A temporal relationship between the quake and an increase in admissions was found although it is not yet possible to detect a direct cause-effect relationship.
Major adverse events, like an earthquake, trigger different kinds of emotional dysfunctions or psychiatric disorders in the exposed subjects. Recent literature has also shown that exposure to natural disasters can increase threat detection. In particular, we previously found a selective enhancement in the ability to read emotional facial expressions in L'Aquila earthquake witnesses, suggesting hypervigilance to stimuli signaling a threat. In light of previous neuroimaging data showing that trauma exposure is related to derangement of resting-state brain activity, in the present study we investigated the neurofunctional changes related to the recognition of emotional faces in L'Aquila earthquake witnesses. Specifically, we tested the relationships between accuracy in recognizing facial expressions and activity of the visual network (VN) and of the default-mode network (DMN). Resting-state functional connectivity (FC) with the main hub of the VN (primary, ventral, right-dorsal, and left-dorsal visual cortices) and DMN (posterior cingulate/precuneus, medial prefrontal, and right and left inferior parietal cortices) was investigated through a seed-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) analysis in both earthquake-exposed subjects and non-exposed persons who did not live in an earthquake-affected area. The results showed that, in earthquakeexposed subjects, there is a significant reduction in the correlation between accuracy in recognizing facial expressions and the FC of the dorsal seed of the VN with the right inferior occipito-temporal cortex and the left lateral temporal cortex, and of two parietal seeds of DMN, i.e., lower parietal and medial prefrontal cortex, with the precuneus bilaterally. These findings suggest that a functional modification of brain systems involved in detecting and interpreting emotional faces may represent the neurophysiological basis of the specific emotional expertise observed in the earthquake witnesses.
A serious earthquake could trigger thousands of landslides and produce some slopes more sensitive to slide in future. Landslides could threaten human's lives and properties, and thus mapping the post-earthquake landslide susceptibility is very valuable for a rapid response to landslide disasters in terms of relief resource allocation and posterior earthquake reconstruction. Previous researchers have proposed many methods to map landslide susceptibility but seldom considered the spatial structure information of the factors that influence a slide. In this study, we first developed a U-net like model suitable for mapping post-earthquake landslide susceptibility. The post-earthquake high spatial airborne images were used for producing a landslide inventory. Pre-earthquake Landsat TM (Thematic Mapper) images and the influencing factors such as digital elevation model (DEM), slope, aspect, multi-scale topographic position index (mTPI), lithology, fault, road network, streams network, and macroseismic intensity (MI) were prepared as the input layers of the model. Application of the model to the heavy-hit area of the destructive 2008 Wenchuan earthquake resulted in a high validation accuracy (precision 0.77, recall 0.90, F1 score 0.83, and AUC 0.90). The performance of this U-net like model was also compared with those of traditional logistic regression (LR) and support vector machine (SVM) models on both the model area and independent testing area with the former being stronger than the two traditional models. The U-net like model introduced in this paper provides us the inspiration that balancing the environmental influence of a pixel itself and its surrounding pixels to perform a better landslide susceptibility mapping (LSM) task is useful and feasible when using remote sensing and GIS technology.
The 20 May 2016 M-W 6.1 Petermann earthquake in central Australia generated a 21 km surface rupture with 0.1 to 1 m vertical displacements across a low-relief landscape. No paleo-scarps or potentially analogous topographic features are evident in pre-earthquake Worldview-1 and Worldview-2 satellite data. Two excavations across the surface rupture expose near-surface fault geometry and mixed aeolian-sheetwash sediment faulted only in the 2016 earthquake. A 10.6 +/- 0.4 ka optically stimulated luminescence (OSL) age of sheetwash sediment provides a minimum estimate for the period of quiescence prior to 2016 rupture. Seven cosmogenic beryllium-10 (Be-10) bedrock erosion rates are derived for samples < 5 km distance from the surface rupture on the hanging-wall and foot-wall, and three from samples 19 to 50 km from the surface rupture. No distinction is found between fault proximal rates (1.3 +/- 0.1 to 2.6 +/- 0.2 m Myr(-1)) and distal samples (1.4 +/- 0.1 to 2.3 +/- 0.2 m Myr(-1)). The thickness of rock fragments (2-5 cm) coseismically displaced in the Petermann earthquake perturbs the steady-state bedrock erosion rate by only 1 to 3%, less than the erosion rate uncertainty estimated for each sample (7-12%). Using Be-10 erosion rates and scarp height measurements we estimate approximately 0.5 to 1 Myr of differential erosion is required to return to pre-earthquake topography. By inference any pre-2016 fault-related topography likely required a similar time for removal. We conclude that the Petermann earthquake was the first on this fault in the last ca. 0.5-1 Myr. Extrapolating single nuclide erosion rates across this timescale introduces large uncertainties, and we cannot resolve whether 2016 represents the first ever surface rupture on this fault, or a > 1 Myr interseismic period. Either option reinforces the importance of including distributed earthquake sources in fault displacement and seismic hazard analyses.
The central section of the San Andreas Fault hosts tectonic tremor and low-frequency earthquakes (LFEs) similar to subduction zone environments. LFEs are often interpreted as persistent regions that repeatedly fail during the aseismic shear of the surrounding fault allowing them to be used as creepmeters. We test this idea by using the recurrence intervals of individual LFEs within LFE families to estimate the timing, duration, recurrence interval, slip, and slip rate associated with inferred slow slip events. We formalize the definition of a creepmeter and determine whether this definition is consistent with our observations. We find that episodic families reflect surrounding creep over the interevent time, while the continuous families and the short time scale bursts that occur as part of the episodic families do not. However, when these families are evaluated on time scales longer than the interevent time these events can also be used to meter slip. A straightforward interpretation of episodic families is that they define sections of the fault where slip is distinctly episodic in well-defined slow slip events that slip 16 times the long-term rate. In contrast, the frequent short-term bursts of the continuous and short time scale episodic families likely do not represent individual creep events but rather are persistent asperities that are driven to failure by quasi-continuous creep on the surrounding fault. Finally, we find that the moment-duration scaling of our inferred creep events are inconsistent with the proposed linear moment-duration scaling. However, caution must be exercised when attempting to determine scaling with incomplete knowledge of scale.
The earth dam analysis under the strong seismic load like a destructive earthquake is one of the major topics with respect to the dynamical assessment. Damage control and the structural behaviour during an earthquake is a very important issue for an earthen dam. In this study, a comprehensive review is presented based on literature for dynamic analysis of earth dams. In this context, some significant factors are discussed such as plane stress, plane strain, data monitoring, application of finite-element method or finite-difference method, reinforcement, free vibration analysis, seismic cracks, liquefaction on dams, utilization of shaking table and centrifuge tests based on the small-scale physical modelling in order to validate any numerical analysis. To explain these parameters, case studies are discussed. It is observed that the earth dam structures had the integrated response to increasing the acceleration or displacement at the crest. Consequently, the interaction between the dam and reservoir also the foundation was a very effective factor to establish the nonlinear behaviour. It seems that the reinforced techniques are an essential approach to improve the structural response during an earthquake.
Indonesia is an archipelago located on three earthquake belts. Because of this, earthquakes can happen anytime and threaten human life. A quick and accurate early warning system using seismic wave data processing is required to decrease the number of victims affected by earthquakes. Here, ADXL335 accelerometers are used as seismic sensors with an Arduino minimum system. When the first earthquake vibrations occur, P-wave data detected by the ADXL335 sensor is successfully buffered, calibrated, transmitted and displayed on the server. In case of errors in the transmission, the server will request for retransmission. The alarm of the earthquake early warning system will be activated if at least three sensors from different locations successfully transmit P wave data on the same scale. This is needed to prevent fake seismic wave alarms.
The southernmost Ryukyu subduction zone may have a geodetically inferred M-w 7.5 to 8.7 megathrust earthquake in a shallow locked region, the Ryukyu fault. Paleoseismological evidence of historical earthquakes available from the last 417 years indicates that only a 1920 M-w 7.7 earthquake occurred within this magnitude range, near the downdip end of the Ryukyu fault. As slow slip events downdip the locked seismogenic zone may trigger a large subduction earthquake, we investigate how the first observed slow slip events in 2005, 2009, and 2015 initiated downdip in the Ryukyu fault interface affect the occurrence of a megathrust. We establish possible megathrust earthquake cycles from M-w 7.5 to 8.7 on the Ryukyu fault using constraints from the magnitude-frequency relation based on local historical earthquakes. This analysis shows a b value of 1.2 for magnitudes greater than M-w 7.0, which is higher than the empirical 1.0 value. This indicates that the recurrence of an event up to M-w 8.7 is longer than previously thought if the megathrust events follow the observed magnitude-frequency relation. Then, we quantify the influence of slow slip events on the triggering of a potential megathrust earthquake by calculating the static stress increase. We find that stress perturbations caused by the three slow slip events are generally consistent with the values that have triggered the large interplate earthquakes in several subduction zones. However, a large earthquake has not yet been triggered on the Ryukyu fault after a sequence of slow slip events. If the 1920 M-w 7.7 earthquake is the last rupture of the Ryukyu fault, the earthquake cycle on the Ryukyu fault is very likely in an early stage. However, this is not true if the slow slip events occur toward the end of the earthquake cycle and there has been no megathrust earthquake at the fault interface in the last 417 years, as the 2011 M-w 9.0 Tohoku earthquake. Thus, higher potential for a megathrust earthquake may occur in the southernmost Ryukyu subduction zone.
On November 25, 2016, the M-w 6.6 Aketao earthquake occurred in Xinjiang, western China. We used the combination of ascending Sentinel-1A, descending Sentinel-1B and ascending ALOS-2 PALSAR data to measure the coseismic deformation. The line-of-sight (LOS) coseismic deformation implies that the earthquake was dominated by right-lateral strike-slip. Ignoring the fault-perpendicular deformation, the fault-parallel and up-down deformation was extracted based on the combination of Sentinel-1A and 1B observations. Results show that the maximum fault-parallel deformation is ~ 13.7 cm at the north wall and the minimum is ~ -16.5 cm at the south wall of the Muji fault. Then, coseismic slip distribution was derived using the steepest descent method (SDM) based on a single-segment fault model using the three InSAR LOS observations as constraints. The slip distribution reveals two slip centers. The maximum slip of the eastern center is 0.5 m at a depth of 8.8 km, where the rake angle is ~ 181.2 degrees. The maximum slip of the western center is 0.6 m at a depth of 10.8 km, where the rake angle is ~ 181.1 degrees. The derived seismic moment obtained equals the M-w 6.6 earthquake. In this study, postseismic deformation time series in 1.5 years after the earthquake were retrieved from 26 multi-temporal Sentinel-1 descending scenes. The postseismic LOS deformation at the north and south walls of Muji fault both increases with time but in opposite directions. The cumulative deformation is 60-80 mm at the north wall, and -30 to -20 mm at the south wall. The postseismic deformation shows similar patterns with the coseismic deformation, and has the same mechanism. There is no obvious lock at the unbroken gap.
A multistart Nelder-Mead neural network algorithm (multi NM-NNA) is presented, the purpose of which is to solve the problem that the existing nonlinear search algorithms are unstable when inversing earthquake source parameters with GPS data. Multi NM-NNA uses the nonuniform sampling strategy to generate the initial starting points to reduce manual intervention, and the Nelder-Mead simplex algorithm is used to optimize the local optimization capability of the NNA. Different GPS stations and fault types are simulated, and the NNA, hybrid particle swarm optimization (PSO)/simplex algorithm [multipeaks particle swarm optimization (MPSO)], and NM-NNA are used to perform earthquake source parameter inversion, respectively. The simulation experiment results show that the calculation precision of the NM-NNA is not affected by the number of stations, and it has better stability in the inversion of different fault types. Compared with the NNA and MPSO, the NM-NNA is more suitable for earthquake source parameter inversion, and the computational efficiency is higher than the NNA. The NNA, MPSO, NM-NNA, and multi NM-NNA are used to invert the earthquake source parameters of the Bodrum-Kos earthquake and carry out the precision estimation of the parameters. Experimental results show that the parameter estimates inverted by the multi NM-NNA are closer to the existing research results and have smaller standard deviation. It is shown that inversion uncertainty of the multi NM-NNA is lower, the calculation results are more stable, and the computational efficiency of the multi NM-NNA is higher than NNA. In the complex and changeable earthquake environment, the multi NM-NNA has greater application potential.
An M-W 4.5 earthquake took place on September 24, 2019 in the Marmara Sea. Two days after, on September 26, 2019, Marmara region was rattled by an M(W)5.7 earthquake. With the intention of compiling an ample strong ground motion data set of recordings, we have utilized the stations of Istanbul Earthquake Rapid Response and Early Warning System operated by the Department of Earthquake Engineering of Bogazici University and of the National Strong Motion Network operated by AFAD. Altogether 438 individual records are used to calculate the source parameters of events; namely, corner frequency, radius, rupture area, average source dislocation, source duration and stress drop. Some of these parameters are compared with empirical relationships and discussed extensively. Duration characteristics are analysed in two steps; first, by making use of the time difference between P-wave and S-wave onsets and then, by considering S-wave durations and significant durations. It is observed that they yield similar trends with global models. PGA, PGV and SA values are compared with three commonly used ground motion prediction models. At distances closer than about 60 km, observed intensity measures mostly conform with the GMPE predictions. Beyond 60 km, their attenuation is clearly faster than those of GMPEs. A frequency-dependent Q model is developed by using both events. Its consistency with existing regional models is confirmed.
Earthquake disasters can cause damage to various types of infrastructure of the electric-gas system, and in severe cases, power outages and gas outages. Taking into account the uneven distribution of earthquakes in space, this paper constructs an earthquake disaster model based on the three-level latent focal region division scheme and an electric-gas system component failure probability model based on earthquake intensity distribution. Then, a planning-oriented resilience assessment framework of electric-gas system under earthquake disaster is proposed. Finally, this paper uses the electric-gas system composed of the IEEE RTS79 grid and the modified 14-node gas grid to verify the proposed resilience assessment framework.
In this paper, the authors tackle the earthquakes study with the aim of determining the magnitude. By means of a GeoGebra program (an open source programme), we encourage the secondary school scholars in modelling the data obtained from an actual earthquake. We intend to obtain the magnitude of an earthquake by a method that can be easily comprehended by the students. The model is based on Richter's approach. In order to facilitate the process, a GeoGebra application was created that allows for an accurate calculus. The instrument presented in this paper assists in a better understanding of the Richter scale (including how it was built) and the correlation between the energy released by the earthquake, the amplitude of the waves and the epicentral distance. The students will be able to analyse a seismogram, to identify its main elements and to determine the magnitude of a simulated earthquake.
In the last five centuries, Portugal was affected by several earthquakes of strong magnitude (M > 7) that caused widespread destruction and a significant death toll. Due to the geographical distribution of moderate-to-strong magnitude events along the Tagus Valley and Southwest of the country, an earthquake early warning system might potentially provide precious warning time ahead of the arrival of the destructive seismic waves. We used a probabilistic seismic hazard model to generate a large stochastic event set for the country, and evaluated the probability of triggering correct and false alerts considering different ground shaking thresholds. We propagated the aleatory variability related to the estimation of the location and event magnitude, as well as the variability in the ground shaking across the Portuguese territory. For the events for which a correct alert would be expected, we estimated the warning time for each district, considering various sources of latency. These analyses were performed considering the current seismic network of the country, as well as the potential installation of submarine sensors as part of the forthcoming renewal of the communication cables between mainland Portugal and the archipelagos of Azores and Madeira. The results indicate that for the districts located in the Southwest of the country, an earthquake early warning system might provide sufficient warning time for risk mitigation measures to be followed.
Rupture processes of global large earthquakes have been observed to exhibit great variability, whereas recent studies suggest that the average rupture behavior could be unexpectedly simple. To what extent do large earthquakes share common rupture characteristics? Here, we use a machine learning algorithm to derive a generic model of global earthquake source time functions. The model indicates that simple and homogeneous ruptures are pervasive whereas complex and irregular ruptures are relatively rare. Despite the standard long-tail and near-symmetric moment release processes, the model reveals two special rupture types: runaway earthquakes with weak growing phases and relatively abrupt termination, and complex earthquakes with all faulting mechanisms but mostly shallow origins (<40 km). The diversity of temporal moment release patterns imposes a limit on magnitude predictability in earthquake early warning. Our results present a panoptic view on the collective similarity and diversity in the rupture processes of global large earthquakes.
This paper introduces the auxiliary function method, a novel, fast and simple approach for waveform based earthquake location. From any initial hypocenter and origin time, we can construct the auxiliary function, whose zero set contains the real earthquake hypocenter and the origin time. This translates the earthquake location problem into the problem of searching the common zeros of the auxiliary functions. The computational cost of constructing the auxiliary functions is close to the cost of one single iteration of the traditional iterative method. And the cost of searching the common zeros of the auxiliary functions is almost negligible. Thus, the overall cost of this new method is significantly less than that of the iterative methods. Moreover, there is only one common zero point of the auxiliary functions in most practical situations. This means that the new method only requires one round of calculation to obtain an accurate earthquake hypocenter and origin time from arbitrary initial values. According to our numerical tests, even for large data noise, the method can still achieve good location results. (C) 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The article describes the formation features of short- and mid-term strong (M 6) earthquake precursors detected from space. A database has been created that contains parameter variations for the ionospheric, geodynamic, and thermal fields detected from space during the preparation and occurrence of significant seismic events. This database is an important element of a unified integrated system for monitoring catastrophic natural disasters. We present a technique for the collection and systematization of satellite and related information, as well as data processing methods to obtain information on irregular variations of various geophysical fields in seismic regions. This database contains general information on more than 4000 earthquakes, as well as the characteristics of 80 strong earthquakes (magnitudes from 6.0 to 9.1) that occurred in various world regions between 1990 and 2017. We also present examples from the database of visualization and analysis of data for various precursors of an earthquake that occurred in Italy on August 24, 2016 (M = 6.2).
In December 2020, a strong earthquake occurred in Northwestern Croatia with a magnitude of M-L = 6.3. The epicenter of this earthquake was located in the town of Petrinja, about 50 km from Zagreb, and caused severe structural damage throughout Sisak-Moslavina county. One of the biggest problems after this earthquake was the structural condition of the bridges, especially since most of them had to be used immediately for demolition, rescue, and the transport of mobile housing units in the affected areas. Teams of civil engineers were quickly formed to assess the damage and structural viability of these bridges and take necessary actions to make them operational again. This paper presents the results of the rapid post-earthquake assessment for a total of eight bridges, all located in or around the city of Glina. For the assessment, a visual inspection was performed according to a previously established methodology. Although most of the inspected bridges were found to be deteriorated due to old age and lack of maintenance, very few of them showed serious damage from the earthquake, with only one bridge requiring immediate strengthening measures and use restrictions. These measurements are also presented in this paper.
The occurrence of large earthquake often induces obvious deformation and stress changes in the surrounding area, especially on the adjacent faults. On Nov. 4, 2001, the huge Kokoxili M(S)8. 1 earthquake, one of the largest earthquakes in China since half a century ago, occurred in the Kunlunshan area. Based on the existing slip model, a global transversely heterogeneous ellipsoid model with the Earth's ellipticity and topography is established. The coseismic displacements and stress changes due to this earthquake are calculated using the equivalent-bodyforce numerical method. The results of coseismic displacements in the near-field are consistent with the GPS observation data, which indicate the reliability of our results. Further, the Coulomb failure stress on the seismogenic faults of Wenchuan, Lushan, Garze and Dangxiong earthquakes increased due to the M(S)8. 1 earthquake, which means that the Kokoxili earthquake may promote the nucleation of these earthquakes. On the other hand, the Coulomb failure stress changes at the hypocenters of Yushu and Delingha earthquakes are negative, which indicates that the Kokoxili earthquake reduced the seismic risks at those sites of seismic activity. In addition, the effects of heterogeneous heterogeneity, terrain and ellipticity of the Earth's on the coseismic calculation are further analyzed. For the Kokoxili earthquake, the average relative error caused by the ellipsoid ellipticity and topography is about 10%.
Understanding strong ground motions in the near-fault areas is important for seismic risk assessment in densely populated areas. In the past, lack of information on strong ground motion for large and moderate earthquakes led to the use of mainly far field large and moderate earthquake records in equations for calculation of the strong ground motion parameters. In this article, we collected and generated a seismic catalogue with a data set of corrected and processed 217 triaxial near source strong ground motion and accelerometric data recorded from 1976 to 2018 obtained from 30 shallow crustal earthquakes with a focal depth below 30 km from different regions including 24 in Iran, 5 in California and one in Italy (because of the lack of Iranian near-field accelerograms) in different stations. These data were recorded (129 Iranian records, 88 from California and Italy) with a source-to-site distance less than 80 km and earthquakes between Mw = 5 and 7.5. Receiver function method was used for site classification for these records. The percentage of processed data in this study was 18%, 43%, 33% and 6% for the different site classes of 1, 2, 3, and 4. In the final catalog, records in which their PGA >= 100 cm /s(2), were reported. This near source ground motion database also contains information about ground motion, source parameters and is fundamental for dynamic research in earthquake engineering for the estimation of strong ground motion parameters (PGA, PGV, PGD and frequency content of response spectra) of moderate-to-large earthquakes.
On 30 October 2020, an M-w = 7.0 earthquake struck the Eastern Aegean Sea with considerable impact on Samos Island in Greece and the area of Izmir in Turkey. It was the most lethal seismic event in 2020 worldwide, and the largest and most destructive in the Aegean Sea since the 1955 earthquake that also affected both countries. The Civil Protection authorities in Greece and Turkey were effectively mobilized responding to the earthquake emergency. The main response actions comprised initial announcements of the earthquake and first assessment of the impact, provision of civil protection guidelines through emergency communication services, search and rescue operations,medical care, set up of emergency shelters and provisions of essential supplies, psychological support, as well as education, training activities and financial support to the affected population. From the comparison of the Civil Protection framework and the implemented response actions, it is seen that actions at both sides of the eastern Aegean Sea, followed a single-hazard approach in disaster management with similar response activities coordinated by a main Civil Protection agency, which was in close cooperation with the respective authorities at a national, regional and local level. Based on the presented information, it is concluded that the post-earthquake response and emergency management were satisfactory in both countries, with valuable lessons learnt ahead of the next major earthquake. To this end, many aspects can be further addressed to enhance community resilience and introduce a multi-hazard approach in (natural and man-made) disaster management.
The 10 January 2018 M(W)7.5 Swan island, Honduras earthquake occurred on the Swan island fault, which is a transform plate boundary between the North American and Caribbean plates. Here we back-project the rupture process of the earthquake using dense seismic stations in Alaska, and find that the earthquake ruptured at least three faults (three stages) for a duration of similar to 40 s. The rupture speed for the longest fault (stage 3) is as fast as 5 km/s, which is much faster than the local shear wave velocity of similar to 4 km/s. Supershear rupture was incidentally observed on long and straight strike-slip faults. This study shows a supershear rupture that occured on a strike-slip fault with moderate length, implying that supershear rupture might commonly occur on large strike-slip earthquakes. The common occurrence of supershear rupture on strike-slip earthquakes will challenge present understanding of crack physics, as well as strong ground motion evaluation in earthquake engineering.
Unlike the other Himalayan plate boundary segments, the eastern Nepal to Bhutan Himalayan region is not known to have generated prominent shallow thrust faulting earthquakes, typical of the ongoing convergence. This region features strike-slip earthquakes over the depth ranges of 40-120km, indicating intraslab deformation. Here we present for the first time a slip distribution model for the largest recorded intraslab strike-slip earthquake in this region, the Mw 6.9 Sikkim event that occurred on 18 September 2011. Relying on kinematic source process modeling, our results indicate a NE-SW trending, steeply dipping sinistral source zone within the underthrusting Indian slab. The rupture propagated radially, with a low rupture velocity of 1.7km/s, breaking a large asperity of 20x20km(2) with a maximum slip of 1.6m. The rupture nucleated at a depth of 45km and reached upper mantle depths. The computed coseismic stress drop value is 13.6MPa. We suggest that most of the aftershocks occurred on the conjugate plane, possibly due to stress triggering. Stress inversion of focal mechanisms indicates a transpressive stress regime throughout the crust and pure strike-slip regime in the upper mantle. We observed a unimodal distribution of earthquakes beneath the Higher Himalaya. This indicates a strong, brittle Indian slab and unravels a scenario of an eventual breakup of the lithosphere; the key trigger might be variation in the convergence rates along the Himalayan arc.
Intensive physical/chemical changes take place in earthquake preparation zone prior to major earthquake events. These changes result in anomalous variations of atmospheric parameters. In this study, anomalous variations of Surface Latent Heat Flux (SLHF) and Air Temperature (AT) are investigated prior to 17 major earthquake events with magnitude >= 5.3 Mw in active tectonic regions of the world for the period from 2004 to 2020 using InterQuartile Range (IQR) and Hierarchical Clustering (HC) statistical techniques. Studied earthquakes are selected from subduction, transform and intraplate locations. The results clearly show anomalous variations in the SLHF and AT atmospheric parameters few days to few weeks prior to the occurrence of the earthquake event. The Honshu earthquake event is captured 54 days prior to the event using SLHF data, whereas Bella Bella earthquake event is observed 39 days prior to the event using AT data. Best anomalies using both SLHF and AT are identified for Pasni and Norcia earthquake events, whereas lowest anomalies using both SLHF and AT are identified for Nsunga and Puerto Quellon events. The anomalous variations of SLHF and AT prior to the earthquake event show a definite precursor pattern. Strong anomalies are observed in subduction/thrust regime whereas, minimum to moderate anomalies are observed along strike slip faults. This study determined the threshold values of 59.52 W/m(2) and 2.87 K for SLHF and AT respectively. The HC revealed more than 70 % similarity among earthquakes based on depth, magnitude, SLHF and AT. Mechanism of energy exchange between lithosphere and atmosphere can be understood by analyzing significant rise in SLHF and AT. It is essential to monitor these variations continuously to properly identify earthquake related anomalies.
In Japan, the nationwide earthquake early warning (EEW) system has been being operated by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) since 2007, disseminating information on imminent strong ground motion to the general public and advanced technical users. In the beginning of the operation, the system ran based mainly on standard source-based algorithms with a point-source location estimate and ground motion prediction equation. The point-source algorithms successfully provided ground motion predictions with high accuracy during the initial operation; however, the 2011 Mw 9.0 Tohoku-Oki earthquake and the subsequent intense aftershock and triggered earthquake activities underscored the weaknesses of the source-based approach. In this paper, we summarize major system developments after the Tohoku-Oki event to overcome the limits of the standard point-source algorithms and to enhance the EEW performance further. In addition, we evaluate how the system performance was influenced by the updates. One of significant improvements in the JMA EEW system was the implementation of two new ground motion prediction methods: the integrated particle filter (IPF) and propagation of local undamped motion (PLUM) algorithms. IPF is a robust point-source algorithm based on the Bayesian inference, and PLUM is a wavefield-based algorithm that predicts ground motions directly from observed shakings. Another notable update was the incorporation of new observation facilities including S-net, a large-scale ocean bottom seismometer network deployed along the Japan and Kuril trenches. The prediction accuracy and warning issuance performance analysis for the updated JMA EEW system showed that IPF improved the source-based ground motion prediction accuracy and reduced the risk of issuing overpredicted warnings. PLUM made the system less likely to underpredict strong ground motions and improved the warning issuance timeliness. The detection time analysis for the S-net incorporation suggested that S-net enabled the system to issue the first EEW report earlier than before the S-net incorporation for earthquakes around the Japan and Kuril trenches. Those findings indicate that the JMA EEW system has made substantial progress both on software and hardware aspects over the 10 years after the Tohoku-Oki earthquake.
The investigation of short-term earthquake-clustering features is made feasible through the application of a purely stochastic Epidemic-Type Aftershock Sequence (ETAS) model. The learning period that is used for the estimation of the parameters is composed by earthquakes with M >= 2.6 that occurred between January 2008 and May 2017. The model predictability is retrospectively examined for the 12 June 2017 Lesvos earthquake (M(w)6.4) and the subsequent events. The construction of time-dependent seismicity maps and comparison between the observed and expected earthquake number are performed in order to temporally and spatially test the evolution of the sequence, respectively. The generation of 127 target events with M >= 3.0 in the period June-July 2017, just before the main shock occurrence, is examined in a quantitative evaluation. The statistical criteria used for assessing the model performance are the Relative Operating Characteristic Diagram, the R-score, and the probability gain. Reliable forecasts are provided through the epidemic model testifying its superiority towards a time-invariant Poisson model.
Base-isolated structures may be subjected to severe seismic demand in the superstructure and/or in the isolation system at sites located near an active fault. Forward directivity effects with long-period horizontal pulses in the fault-normal velocity signals are the main cause of this behaviour. However, recent studies have identified pulses in arbitrary orientations along with false-positive classification of pulse-type ground motions. The aim of the present work is to evaluate the reliability of elastomeric (i.e. high-damping-laminated-rubber bearings, HDLRBs) and sliding (i.e. curved surface sliding bearings, CSSBs) base-isolation systems for the seismic retrofitting of in plan irregular buildings located in the near-fault area. To this end, a five-storey reinforced concrete (r.c.) framed structure, with an asymmetric-plan and bays of different length, is chosen from benchmark structures of the Re.L.U.I.S. project. Attention is focused on the pulse-type and non-pulse-type nature of near-fault earthquakes and moderately-soft and soft subsoil conditions. First, a comparison between algorithms based on wavelet signal processing, that can identify pulses at a single (e.g. fault-normal) or arbitrary orientation in multicomponent near-fault ground motions, is carried out to classify records of recent events in central Italy and worldwide. Then, nonlinear seismic analysis of the fixed-base and base-isolated test structures is performed by using a lumped plasticity model to describe the inelastic behaviour of the r.c. frame members. Nonlinear force-displacement laws are considered for the HDLRBs and CSSBs, including coupled bi-directional motions in the horizontal directions and coupling of vertical and horizontal motions.
The coseismic geothermal changes of ground temperature observed at observatories near the epicenter of the 2020 Jiashi Ms = 6.4 earthquake in China, provide a unique opportunity to study heat generation and conduction in rock. Here, evolutions of rock temperature at the Xikeer, Jiashizongchang, and Gedaliang observatories, which are located at epicentral distances of 1.4, 27.42, and 50 km respectively, were analyzed. Significant coseismic geothermal changes of 0.0432 degrees C were observed at the Xikeer observatory at the depth of 33.38 m, at which clear diurnal variations can be observed. Smaller changes of ~0.0001 degrees C were observed at the depths of 12.3 and 22.8 m at the Xikeer observatory and 22.3 m at the Jiashizongchang observatory. The stress transfer induced by the coseismic rupture induced a rise in local ground temperature, but the magnitude of the change was relatively small. The larger amplitude change at the Xikeer observatory was caused by fluid infiltration. We note that diurnal variation has been recorded at the Gedaliang observatory, but the coseismic response is no longer in existence. The temperature increases at the hypocentral area were higher than expected in the ground due to the coseismic stress transfer, but the change attenuated rapidly with distance.
The 2012 Ahar-Varzegan earthquake and its aftershocks have not only caused huge damage with a severe loss of life and property but also induced many geo-hazards with the major type of collapse, creep, slip, debris flow, and fallings that are generally considered as landslide in this study which can cause continuous threats to the affected region. in this study, a semi-automated geo-hazard detection method has been presented to determine the Landslides due to 2012 Ahar-Varzaghan earthquake in area from Ahar to Varzaghan by the use of bi- temporal Landsat images from before and after the earthquake. The accuracy of the results was checked out using field observations, Google Earth images and the error matrix. The results of the visual validation with the Google Earth images showed that the used method can detect landslids with relatively high accuracy.The images of landsat5 and 8 Because of their multispectral advantages can be used as a suitable data source for research on Instabilities. Finally, the validating results obtained by using the error matrix showed the total accuracy of 92.1% and kappa coefficient was 0.99. So based on the results obtained from the above method, the landslides were distributed mainly in slopes between 15 and 40 degrees and the height distribution of instabilities of 1420 to 2000 meters. Also based on vegetation indices, density of landslides have been increased after the earthquake. Generally unstabel slopes are located along river valleys and roads in mountain regions with deep valleys and steep slopes. According to the nature of present study, the obtained result can be useful for environmental planners and project developers.
The thermal state of the crust and mantle in subduction zones is controlled by the depth of the subducting plate. With low-angle subduction, like at the eastern end of the Alaska subduction zone, the less attenuating fore-arc is extended farther from the trench and can effect ground motions in addition to source and site effects. Recent crustal and subduction earthquakes in south-central Alaska, including the 2018 M 7.1 Anchorage event, demonstrate these effects. Inslab earthquake waves in the subducting plate can propagate up the slab to the fore-arc region with less attenuation, causing an increase in observed ground motions. Long-period ground motions from the 2018 M 7.1 Anchorage earthquake are significantly higher than predicted ground motions from current subduction ground-motion models within 50-100 km of the epicenter. At short periods, ground motions show reduced amplitudes due to nonlinear sediment effects in the Anchorage area, reducing the damage potential of the earthquake. At long periods, ground motions are little affected by sediment nonlinearity and remain higher than expected. The duration of shaking was too short for widespread liquefaction effects, unlike during the 1964 M 9.2 earthquake. Other historical earthquakes have produced similar increases in ground motions in the Cook Inlet and Kenai Peninsula region. At both short and long periods, ground motions from the 2016 Iniskin M 7.1 inslab earthquake are higher than expected in the Cook Inlet region. The 2015 Redoubt M 6.3 inslab earthquake also shows increased ground motions in the Cook Inlet region at all periods. Crustal Q estimates from Lg waves show less attenuation in south-central Alaska at longer periods. In the larger south-central Alaska region crustal Q(f)=336f(0.34) compared to Q(f)=217f(0.84) for all of Alaska with most of the decrease in attenuation at frequencies below 2 Hz.
Background. The factors influencing pubertal timing have gained much attention due to a secular trend toward earlier pubertal onset in many countries. However, no studies have investigated the association between the Great earthquake and early puberty. We aimed to assess whether the Wenchuan earthquake is associated with early puberty, in both boys and girls. Methods. We used data from two circles of a survey on reproductive health in China to explore the impact of the Wenchuan earthquake on early puberty, and a total of 9,785 adolescents (4,830 boys, 49.36%) aged 12-20 years from 29 schools in eight provinces were recruited. Wenchuan earthquake exposure was defined as those Sichuan students who had not experienced oigarche/menarche before May 12, 2008. Early puberty was identified as a reported onset of oigarche/menarche at 11 years or earlier. We tested the association between the Wenchuan earthquake and early puberty in boys and girls. Then, subgroup analysis stratified by the age at earthquake exposure also was performed. Results. In total, 8,883 adolescents (4,543 boys, 51.14%) with a mean (SD) age of 15.13 (1.81) were included in the final sample. In general, children exposed to the earthquake had three times greater risk of early puberty (boys, RR [95% CI] = 3.18 [2.21-4.57]; girls: RR [95%CI] =3.16 [2.65-3.78]). Subgroup analysis showed that the adjusted RR was 1.90 [1.19-3.03] for boys and 2.22 [1.75-2.80] for girls. Earthquake exposure predicted almost a fourfold (RR [95%CI] = 3.91 [1.31-11.72]) increased risk of early puberty in preschool girls, whereas the increase was about twofold (RR [95%CI] = 2.09 [1.65-2.64]) in schoolgirls. Among boys, only older age at earthquake exposure was linked to early puberty (RR [95%CI] = 1.93 [1.18-3.16]). Conclusions. Wenchuan earthquake exposure increased the risk of early puberty in boys and girls, and preschoolers were more at risk than schoolchildren. The implications are relevant to support policies for those survivors, especially children, to better rebuild after disasters.
We have analyzed ULF magnetic field emissions data obtained from identical 3component search coil mag-netometers installed at Indian stations of Agra (Geograph. lat. 27.2 degrees N, long. 78 degrees E), Shillong (25.92 degrees N, 91.88 degrees E), and Kachchh (23.78 degrees N, 71 degrees E) for the months of April 2012 and September 2013 in which three major earthquakes occurred, one of magnitude M = 8.5 in Indonesian region and two of magnitudes M = 7.4 and 6.8 in Pakistan. The results of the analysis show the occurrence of ULF bursts 09-16 days prior to the occurrence of these earthquakes at Agra and Shillong stations. Such bursts are not observed at Kachchh station. Analysis of ULF data obtained from a flux gate magnetometer at a remote station Kakioka in Japan (Geograph. lat. 36.2 degrees N, long. 140.2 degrees E) does not show such burst also. The bursts contain electromagnetic pulses of periods 10-15s (f = 0.06-0.1 Hz). The origins of these bursts in lithospheric sources (earthquakes) are confirmed by polarization parameter analysis of data. These ULF data are not influenced by lightning and magnetic storms. A long period analysis of the ULF data for the same months between the years 2010 and 2017 shows that occurrence of such bursts are characterized by either large magnitude shallow depth earthquakes (M 6) or multiple shallow depth earthquakes of low magnitudes (M < 6). The precursory periods of the recorded ULF bursts match very well with those reported by Singh et al. (2018) who analyzed very low frequency (VLF) and ionospheric total electron content (TEC) data recorded at Agra station.
Prior to the 2009 L'Aquila event, earthquake forecasting and early warning research focused specifically on earthquakes as the crisis events. Although this is still true, the manslaughter convictions of six earthquake scientists and one public official for failed risk communication in 2009 served as a catalyst for expanding these goals to also intentionally examine the challenges of communicating earthquake risk with non-scientific during the pre-crisis stage of the earthquake lifecycle. The Crisis Emergency Risk Communication (CERC) Model developed by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) provides specific guidelines for doing so. Thus, based on a thematic analysis of interviews with 21 earthquake scientists, this study identifies what those responsible for communicating regularly about earthquake risk see as major communication challenges and the extent to which the CERC model recommendations are useful for addressing them. Results suggest that earthquake risk science communicators are most effective when they translate scientific and technical information simply, respond to competing messages, capitalize on relevant popular culture references, employ risk communication campaigns during 'quiet periods', and acknowledge uncertainty. These findings have implications not only for earthquake science risk communicators, but also for expanding the pre-crisis stage best practices proposed in the Crisis Emergency Risk Communication (CERC) model. Essentially, this study reveals that soliciting and responding to feedback in the pre-crisis stage could help spokespersons clarify or correct any messages that are perceived by audiences as unclear or are simply not accurate. Doing so may improve risk communication effectiveness not only during the pre-crisis stage but also throughout the earthquake crisis lifecycle.
Earthquake prediction is an extraordinarily stochastic process. Determining the occurrence time, location of epicenter and magnitude of a coming earthquake in the following month is an extremely difficult task. Nowadays, some geophysical, statistical and machine learning methods are adopted to predict earthquakes, however, for the insufficient medium-large seismic data, their results are not satisfactory. Due to there is no obvious empirical relationship between seismicity features, magnitude and location of a coming earthquake in a particular time window, an earthquake prediction approach based on danger theory is proposed in this paper. It extracts eight indicators calculated from earthquake data for recent years in Sichuan and surroundings by Gutenberg-Richter(GR) inverse power-law, and predicts quakes with magnitude lager than 4.5 during the following month by numerical differential based Dendritic Cell Algorithm (ndDCA). We compare this approach with six state-of-art earthquake prediction algorithms. Overall our algorithm yields the encouraging results in all the qualified parameters assessed, and it provides technical support for the application of earthquake prediction.
The May 21, 2021 M(s)6.4 Yangbi earthquake source area is located west side of Weixi-Qiaohou-Weishan fault, belonging to Chuandian block west boundary. In recent years, there have been some moderate and strong earthquakes in this area, and the seismic activity is relatively active. Studying on relocation of the Yangbi earthquake sequence and imaging fine velocity structure of the Yangbi M(s)6.4 earthquake source region and its adjacent area is important to understand the characterization of the seismogenic zone, the mechanism and rupture process of the Yangbi M(s)6.4 earthquake. In this paper, we collected 36938 Pg and 32111 Sg arrival times received by permanent stations from January 1, 2008 to June 3, 2021 and conducted a study of 3-D seismic velocity structure of source region and relocation of the Yangbi earthquake sequence with a new triple-difference tomography method (tomoTD). The result shows that: (1) The aftershock activity mainly occurred in the west side of Weixi-Qiaohou-Weishan fault and the distribution of the aftershocks exhibit a strip along the NNW direction. Combining with focal mechanism solutions of strike-slip faults suggests that the NNW direction potential fault is the main seismogenic structure. The north-western section of the NNW direction fault is a strike-slip fault with a steep dip and a relatively single structure, and the south-eastern section is composed of two branch faults. (2) The occurrence of mainshock and the distribution of the Yangbi earthquake sequence are coincided well with the crustal structure of velocity heterogeneity. The mainshock and aftershocks with a magnitude larger than 4 seem to occur at the transition areas between high and low velocity anomalies or at the boundary of the high velocity zone and the aftershocks mainly occurred in the low velocity and high V-p/V-s zones and some high V-p/V-s anomalies are below and above the mainshock, which suggests that regional stress field is accumulated in the rigid medium of the seismogenic zones, and fluids from middle-lower crust (or the partial melting of crust materials) intrude into the seismogenic zones, which weakens Yangbi M(s)6.4 mainshock zone. In addition, the low V-p/V-s zone, located southeastern side of aftershocks, may have strong rigidity and prevent aftershocks spreading towards the southeast. (3) Combined with the study result of 2013 M(s)5.5 Eryuan, it is speculated that there may be a large NNW potential fault on the west side of Weixi-Qiaohou-Weishan fault.
Forecasting the spatio-temporal occurrence of events is at the core of Operational Earthquake Forecasting, which is of great interest for risk management, particularly during ongoing seismic sequences. Epidemic type aftershock sequence (ETAS) models are powerful tools to estimate the occurrence of events during earthquake sequences. In this context, a robust seismicity forecasting framework based on Bayesian-inference has been adapted to the Patras and Aegio region in western Greece (one of the most seismically active parts of Mediterranean), and an incremental adaptive algorithm is introduced to train the priors for ETAS model parameters. The seismicity forecasting is capable of accounting for uncertainty in the model parameters as well as variations in the sequence of events that may happen during the forecasting interval. Six seismic sequences between 1995 and 2018 were selected with main shock moment magnitudes M-w >= 6.0. The ETAS model was adapted for each seismic sequence. The number of forecasted events with M-w >= 4.5 and their spatial distribution was retrospectively compared with the as-recorded earthquake catalogue, confirming a good agreement between the forecasts and observations. The results show that the adapted model can be used immediately after a severe main shock to statistically predict potentially damaging earthquakes during the ongoing seismic sequence. The seismicity forecasts were translated to short-term daily exceedance rates for different thresholds of peak ground acceleration. The results reveal that the seismic hazard increased by up to 33 times in the case of the damaging 1995 M-w 6.5 earthquake in the city of Aegio. However, the results confirmed that in all six studied sequences, the increased seismic hazard decayed rapidly during the 2 d after the main shock, and remained relatively high in the following days (roughly ten times the long-term time-independent hazard).
The 2017 Moijabana earthquake in central Botswana (M(w)6.4) was a large and deep event for a continental interior and occurred in a region with little historical seismicity. Based on InSAR measurements of surface deformation spanning the event and teleseismic observations, we determine the ruptured fault plane and finite rupture model of the earthquake. Although this oblique normal-faulting earthquake is too deep to uniquely determine the rupture plane geometry from InSAR alone, the best-fitting fault plane constrained by the joint inversion of teleseismic waveforms and InSAR data has a southwest dip and a strike of 126 degrees, roughly consistent with the geologically mapped strike of the Kaapvaal craton's northern edge. Our results indicate that the earthquake had a total duration of similar to 10 s, characterized by two major asperities. The first asperity nucleated in the lower crust and then the rupture propagated up-dip. The lower crustal asperity shows a much shorter rise time compared with the shallower asperity, indicating that contrasts in stress or material properties may have played an important role in the rupture process. The earthquake appears to have occurred in the Limpopo belt, a Proterozoic orogenic belt that represents an ancient zone of weakness between the Archean Zimbabwe and Kaapvaal cratons. In the present day, this zone of weakness may be responding to the stress field imposed by the East African Rift System. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In order to solve the problem of earthquake disaster emergency rescue and emergency resource allocation and the social risk change of earthquake disaster, based on the analysis of the interrelationships of various elements of earthquake hazard social risk evolution system, the method of system dynamics was used to construct the earthquake disaster The evolution of social risk, causal graph and system dynamics model, and the Nepal earthquake as an example, the evolution of the social risk of earthquake disaster simulation analysis. The simulation results show that the different allocation of emergency resources will have a certain impact on the social risk of earthquake disaster. The less the allocation of resources, the greater the possibility of the occurrence of social disasters, to provide a reference for how to reasonably allocate emergency resources for the emergency departments when conducting emergency risk management.
Background: Earthquake is the most catastrophic disaster that has harmful psychological, economic, social, political, and cultural effects on societies. Resilience or ability of a person for adapting to post-earthquake problems and crises is influenced by known and unknown factors. The present study aimed to explore experiences of Bam earthquake survivors about adolescents' resilience in that time. Methods: This is a qualitative study with a directed Content Analysis approach. The participants were a total of 34 individuals including; 10 teachers and 24 parents of the students who had earthquake experience in adolescent period. The subjects were selected based on a purposive method. The sampling was done until data saturation from the junior high schools in Bam city, Iran, in 2019. Data collected through in-depth and semi-structured interviews and analyzed by Granehim and Lundman method. Results: Data analysis yielded 565 primary codes, 217 conceptual codes after integration, 25 subcategories, and 6 categories from the participants' experiences about their resilience against the disasters and earthquake. 6 categories include: disaster consequence, beliefs about resilience, beliefs about strengthening resilience, factors affecting resilience, consequences of facing disasters, the necessity of disaster preparedness. Conclusion: Participants stated different opinions and experiences about resilience and the factors that enhance or reduce it. They emphasized the necessity of preparedness and acquiring different skills for coping with disasters. Therefore, it is suggested that crisis management officials use these experiences to devise measures to prepare communities, before the occurrence of disasters, to support during and after disasters, to decrease the problems of future crises and to enhance resilience in communities, especially among adolescents as the next generation of society.
The stability inside the waste, internal stability, and co-stability between the elements of the insulation system and the landfill bed should be considered in the landfill design. The stresses and the resulting deformations in both mineral and geosynthetic materials of the insulation system must be controlled in the design, so that an unpredictable flow path is not created. Besides, long-term durability in the insulation system should be considered. An evaluation of the durability of the system requires knowledge of the interaction between the components and the waste as a settling object. The numerical modeling methods can be used to evaluate the local instability. In this study, a landfill constructed in the UK has been modeled in ABAQUS finite element platform and was verified with the results of obtained data from precision instruments at the landfill site. Then, by applying the earthquake excitations, the seismic behavior of the solid waste landfill under Far-Field and Near-Field earthquakes and their effect on the durability of the landfill wall system were investigated. The outputs include maximum displacement, maximum stress, the most critical state, and investigation of yield stress and rupture of the geomembrane layer. The results indicated that in the landfill wall, the maximum displacement occurs in the waste section. It occurs especially between the boundary of natural soil and waste. It was also observed that the geomembrane layer under the earthquake loadings had experienced some ruptures.
An unusual earthquake doublet ruptured the high-risk middle segment of the Xianshuihe fault in November 2014, exhibiting significant variations in the rupture and aftershock characteristics. By conducting rupture kinematic inversions jointly with local broadband seismic data, strong-motion data, and coseismic InSAR data, we find diverse rupture processes of this earthquake doublet. The first event ruptured upward along the dip and bilaterally along the strike with the duration of 8.0 s, whereas the second event ruptured mainly around the hypocenter with the duration of 3.5 s. The estimated moment magnitudes of the first and second events of this earthquake doublet were M-W 6.0 and M-W 5.7, respectively. The further analysis of rupture model-based static and dynamic stress change suggests that the first event is likely responsible for triggering the second event. Based on the comprehensive analysis of aftershock migration features, we find complex and diverse driving mechanisms of aftershocks. Aftershocks of the first event of the earthquake doublet were likely driven by afterslip. Early aftershocks of the second event were also likely driven by afterslip; however, later aftershocks were likely driven by fluid diffusion. The revealed diverse rupture characteristics of the 2014 Kanding earthquake doublet sequence suggest the inherent strength and/or stress heterogeneities on the seismogenic faults.
The month-to-year-long deformation of the Earth's crust where active subduction zones terminate is poorly explored. Here we report on a multidisciplinary data set that captures the synergy of slow-slip events, earthquake swarms and fault interactions during the similar to 5 years leading up to the 2018 M-w 6.9 Zakynthos Earthquake at the western termination of the Hellenic Subduction System (HSS). It appears that this long-lasting preparatory phase initiated due to a slow-slip event that lasted similar to 4 months and released strain equivalent to a similar to M-w 6.3 earthquake. We propose that the slow-slip event, which is the first to be reported in the HSS, tectonically destabilized the upper 20-40 km of the crust, producing alternating phases of seismic and aseismic deformation, including intense microseismicity (M-w < 4) on neighboring faults, earthquake swarms in the epicentral area of the M-w 6.9 earthquake similar to 1.5 years before the main event, another episode of slow slip immediately preceding the mainshock and, eventually, the large (M-w 6.9) Zakynthos Earthquake. Tectonic instability in the area is evidenced by a prolonged (similar to 4 years) period of overall suppressed b-values (<1) and strong earthquake interactions on discrete strike-slip, thrust and normal faults. We propose that composite faulting patterns accompanied by alternating (seismic/aseismic) deformation styles may characterize multifault subduction-termination zones and may operate over a range of timescales (from individual earthquakes to millions of years).
The current independent operating mechanism of regional seismic networks in China makes it possible that there are multiple versions of earthquake catalogs and seismic phase observations at the border areas of adjacent networks, which affects the analysis of seismicity. To solve this problem, we propose a joint probabilistic approach to find out the same events among seismic networks, merging their phase data and relocating the events, and re-yielding the unified catalog in the border region of adjacent networks. The procedures of this approach are presented below. First, we calculate the temporal, spatial and magnitude differences by pairwise comparison of the events among various networks which have the minimum occurrence time difference to obtain the difference distribution of the three source parameters. Second, we find the outlier and ticking out the isolate events. Third, the joint probability is evaluated from the distributions after these steps. Finally, we merge catalogs and phase reports based on the joint probabilistic analysis, relocate and analyze errors. The completeness of the re-yielded catalog can be checked by G-R relationship. We apply this method to the Ludian earthquake sequence. The results show that the phase-merged hypocenter precision is improved significantly compared with that before they are merged, particularly compared with the Sichuan catalog. The merged catalog is similar to the relatively complete Yunnan's catalog, and more precise than that from simple combination of two catalogs. Meanwhile, in the process of catalog merging, M-s rather than M-L magnitude type should be chosen for M-L >= 4. The arrival time information reported by the repeatedly used stations in the merged events can be employed to detect whether there is system bias between different networks. The method presented in this paper makes it possible to form a unified and reliable seismic catalog in the transition region of adjacent networks.
A relative decrease in the fraction of large aftershocks in the first days after earthquakes in subduction zones is demonstrated, and a connection of this phenomenon with aseismic stress release is shown.
The increase of social media use in recent years has shown potential also for the identification of specific trends in the data that could be used to locate earthquakes. In this work, we implemented a pipeline that uses Twitter data to identify locations of earthquakes and use the information to trigger EO data analysis. We tested the pipeline for almost a year over Japan, an area where earthquake events are frequent, as well as the use of social media in the population. Here, we show the results and discuss the potential development of such procedures. In the future, considering the rapid development and the increase of satellite constellations aimed at global coverage with short revisit times, algorithms of this kind could be used to prioritize satellite acquisitions for the detection of the areas most affected by earthquake damages.
This study examines individual-and household-level factors associated with human injuries caused by two powerful earthquakes that hit Nepal on April 25 and May 12, 2015. A cross-sectional post-earthquake survey design was adopted to accomplish the objective of this study. Using random sampling, two of the 31 affected districts (Sindhupalchok and Lalitpur) were selected. Five study sites from each of the two districts were selected to administer questionnaire surveys. Focus group meetings and semi-structured formal and informal interviews with key informants were also used to collect relevant data. Building on previous studies, we considered nine risk factors for earthquake injuries in this study: five individual-level factors and four household-level factors. Using a goodness-of-fit chi-square test, we identified statistically significant risk factors of earthquake injuries in Nepal. Our results show that out of the nine factors, one individual-level factor-age-and two household-level factors-monthly income and type of main dwelling-were statistically significant. While long-term efforts to improve the economic conditions of those affected will reduce earthquake injuries, in the short-term, requiring seismic-resilient features in new construction and repairing damaged houses will substantially reduce earthquake injuries. Fortunately, the Nepalese Government has been ensuring that all houses are rebuilt and repaired to earthquake-resistant standards.
Earthquake response control of base-isolated bridges using supplementary passive dampers is presented. A benchmark highway overcrossing located in California is selected to indicate the effectiveness of such hybrid response control schemes. The bridge is modeled as a lumped mass three-dimensional stick model. The coupled differential equations of motion for the system are derived and solved using Newmark's step-by-step iteration method. Considering a bidirectional interaction of the seismic forces, the bridge responses are investigated using various combinations of base isolators and damper systems, called hybrid systems. Further, a parametric study is carried out to investigate the dynamic response of the highway bridge by changing the characteristic parameters of the control devices and the isolation period of the structure for different hybrid systems under various real earthquake ground motions. The variations in seismic responses, such as bearing displacement and base shear in the bridge pier, are computed and compared to study the effectiveness of the various damper-isolator combinations. The present study concludes better performance of the fluid viscous damper when used as supplementary dampers with the lead-core rubber bearing or friction pendulum system for the base isolation, leading to reduced bearing displacements and pier base shear. (C) 2021 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Geochemical compositions changes in groundwater in response to earthquakes have been documented for decades, and most such studies have documented the changes in major ions or geochemical gases (e.g., Radon). Changes in trace elements, however, have received less attention. In this paper, we collected groundwater samples from a wellbore in Yunnan Province weekly and analyzed both the major and trace chemical compositions from February 2018 to September 2018. Combined with well water level records, we found that the August 2018 Tonghai M5.0 earthquake caused changes in both water levels and trace elements but caused no significant changes in the stable isotope and major ions. Such a response indicates that trace elements are more sensitive to crustal strain than are the major elements and isotopes. And We considered that earthquake-induced shaking caused a breach in the hydraulic barrier of the isolated reservoir that led to the mixing of water with low concentrations of trace elements as the mechanism to explain the coseismic response. This study demonstrate that some trace elements are more sensitive to earthquake strain than the commonly used chemical constitutents and that trace element monitoring should considered to be a priority in the future to provide a complete assessment of the sensitivity of different chemical constitutents to earthquake stresses.
Understanding the evolution of post-seismic geohazards with vegetation recovery is of great significance for long-term geohazard risk assessment. The Wenchuan earthquake in 2008 triggered numerous landslides and severely damaged the vegetation in the earthquake-stricken region. Between 2008 and 2017, we evaluated the vegetation recovery process, the evolution of rain-induced landslides and debris flows, and the relationship between them by analyzing satellite images and conducting detailed field investigations. Shortly after the earthquake, numerous landslides and debris flows were triggered by rainstorms and the vegetation was severely damaged near the epicenter. In the first 5 years (2008-2013) the vegetation recovered quickly but was not well rehabilitated. Rain-induced landslides and debris flows occurred actively but exhibited a clear declining trend in both frequency and magnitude. After 2013, the vegetation gradually recovered to the pre-seismic normal level in terms of quantity, but with higher variability and isolated spots to be further rehabilitated. Over this period, rain-induced geohazards mainly occurred in the catchments where the level of vegetation recovery was uneven, with occasional bare deposits. Therefore, a close relation is observed between declining rain-induced geohazards and the recovery of vegetation, in both time and space. The findings provide important information for post-seismic infrastructure re-construction and disaster risk reduction in future mountain earthquake events. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To satisfy the requirements of performance-based design methods for a large number of earthquake signals that contain a series of variable random variables, the generation of artificial seismic ground motion is necessary. To statistics amplitudes' instability in the time domain, 500 recorded earthquakes have been divided into 5 groups by D5-95 durations and are statistically analyzed. For each D5-95 earthquake group, its standard time-domain enhancement-attenuation process is described as the edge envelope curve, and the representativeness of the curve is valued as the coverage rate. Comparing response spectrums before and after multiplying with edge envelopes functions of 6000 initial artificial earthquakes that are generated by inverse Fourier process with different intensities and D5-95 durations, their spectrums are well-matched. This newly proposed method is proven to be able to generate artificial earthquake signals that resemble natural amplitudes and time-domain characteristics and maintain the desired frequency domain response. (c) 2021 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier BV on behalf of Faculty of Engineering, Ain Shams University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/ by-nc-nd/4.0/).
Earthquake risk can be quantified in terms of the estimated numbers of human casualties and of damaged buildings as well as the monetary losses. The information required for the assessment of earthquake risk in a given region includes the expected level of ground shaking intensity (i.e., the seismic hazard), inventory data for building stock at risk, identification of predominant building typologies and of their vulnerability characteristics, and spatial distribution of number of inhabitants. This study presents an indicative assessment of earthquake risk associated with the building stock in Muscat, the capital city of the Sultanate of Oman. For this purpose, building inventory and demographic data for the city are compiled in GIS environment. The buildings are classified to identify their damageability/vulnerability characteristics, and predominant building typologies are determined. For the estimation of casualties, Muscat population data are further analyzed to calculate number of occupants in the exposed building stock. Spectral acceleration-displacement based damage estimation methodology is implemented for risk calculations. Site-specific ground motions in terms spectral accelerations obtained from the probabilistic seismic hazard assessment for 475- and 2475-year return periods are considered for the representation of earthquake demand in damage analyses. Assessment of damage to buildings and estimation of casualties are obtained using analytical fragility relationships and building damage related casualty-vulnerability models, respectively. Earthquake risk maps illustrating the spatial distribution of number of damaged buildings at different damage states are presented for the considered levels of seismic hazard.
We propose a new possible earthquake precursor, a coastal water jet originating from shallow water gas seeps and colored by sediments, lifted from increased gas seeps emissions, preceding some earthquakes with offshore epicenters along the Bulgarian Black Sea coast and M >= 3. The new possible earthquake precursor is site specific and may be observed in shallow coastal water regions where active faults are accompanied by hydrocarbon gas seeps. We point out to a region where it can be easily detected by direct observation and satellite remote sensing, Zelenka methane seeps (ZMS), near the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. The ZMS activation is related to the tectonic stress and fracturing preceding and accompanying the earthquakes in the Shabla-Kaliakra-Balchik region along the northern part of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. We also propose an earthquake forecasting experiment, based on the following four hypotheses: 1) The change of the methane emission of shallow horizons is related to crustal strain changes preceding earthquakes in the region; 2) extreme change of the activity of underwater methane seepages appears immediately before nearby earthquakes; 3) shallow water methane seepages activity can be monitored by remote sensing; 4) satellites can register effects from an extreme increase in their emissions. The proposed earthquake forecasting experiment is based on the monitoring of methane seepages activity in the ZMS area by direct observation and remote sensing which may provide indication for preparatory earthquake activity preceding offshore earthquakes in the region.
The Lujiang well, a 63 A degrees C artesian well, recorded sustained hydrological changes following the 1999 Chi-Chi M-w 7.6, the 2008 Wenchuan M-w 7.9, and the 2011 Tohoku M-w 9.0 earthquakes, including rises in the water radon concentration, water pressure, discharge and water level, and drops in the water temperature. These hydrological changes are synchronous and have similar amplitudes. The permeability inferred through the tidal response of water level showed insignificant change after the three earthquakes. We attribute the observed hydrological changes to the increase in the vertical recharge on the basis that the water radon concentration of the Lujiang well increased following the increase of recharge to the well; significant vertical flow exists in the well-aquifer system; the well has a lower water radon concentration and a higher water temperature than its adjacent wells with different aquifers.
The 2019 Ridgecrest, California, earthquake sequence included M-w 6.4 and 7.1 earthquakes that occurred on successive days beginning on 4 July 2019. These two largest earthquakes of the sequence occurred on orthogonal faults that ruptured the Earth's surface. To better evaluate the 3D subsurface fault structure, (P- and S-wave) velocity, 3D and temporal variations in seismicity, and other important aspects of the earthquake sequence, we recorded aftershocks and ambient noise using up to 461 three-component nodal seismographs for about two months, beginning about one day after the M-w 7.1 mainshock. The similar to 30,000 M-w >= 1 earthquakes that were recorded on the dense arrays provide an unusually large volume of data with which to evaluate the earthquake sequence. This report describes the recording arrays and is intended to provide metadata for researchers interested in evaluating various aspects of the 2019 Ridgecrest earthquake sequence using the nodal data set.
An M(s)6. 4 earthquake hit the Yangbi County in Dali Prefecture, Yunnan Province on May 21, 2021. The earthquake sequence is of foreshock-mainshock-aftershock type, with high aftershock frequency. In the current paper, aiming to obtain the seismicity characteristics of the earthquake sequence and potential seismogenic structure in the focal area, we first calculate the time-dependent b-value in the focal area since 2010. Then we relocate the Yangbi earthquake sequence, and invert focal mechanism solutions and tectonic stress field. The main conclusions are as follows : (1) The b-value in the focal area gradually decreased since December 2020. The seismicity gradually increased since May 18,2021 , and the b-value shortly rebounded, followed by a rapid decrease until the M(s)6. 4 Yangbi earthquake occurred. Now the b-value recovers to the average level, indicating that the risk of strong earthquake is gradually reduced. (2) By combining the results of relocation and focal mechanism solutions, we find that the seismogenic fault of this earthquake sequence is dominated by a SE-trending high-dip right-lateral strike-slip fault and with several NE or NNE-trending high-dip left-lateral strike-slip secondary faults. (3) The focal area is controlled by a tectonic stress field with the NNW-trending horizontal compression and NEE-trending horizontal tension, and it is strengthened before the mainshock occurs.
Dynamic strains have never played a role in determining local earthquake magnitudes, which are routinely set by displacement waveforms from seismic instrumentation (e.g., M-L). We present a magnitude scale for local earthquakes based on broadband dynamic strain waveforms. This scale is derived from the peak root-mean-squared strains (A) in 4589 records of dynamic strain associated with 365 crustal earthquakes and 77 borehole strainmeters along the Pacific-North American plate boundary on the west coast of the United States and Canada. In this data set, catalog moment magnitudes range from 3.5 <= M-w <= 7.2, and hypocentral distances range from 6 <= R <= 500 km. The 1D representation of geometrical spreading and attenuation of A common to all strain data is logA(0)(R) = -0.00072R-1.45 log(R). After correcting for instrument gain, site terms, and event terms, the magnitude scale, M-DS = logA-logA(0)(R)-log(3x10(-9)), scales as approximate to 0.92M(w) with a residual standard deviation of 0.19. This close association with M-w holds for events east of the -124 degrees meridian; west of this boundary, however, a constant correction of 0.41 is needed to adjust for additional along-path attenuation effects. As a check on the accuracy of this magnitude scale, we apply it to dynamic strain records from three strainmeters located in the near field of the 2019 M 6.4 and 7.1 Ridgecrest earthquakes. Results from these six records are in agreement to within 0.5 magnitude units, and five out of six records are in agreement to within 0.34 units.
In the border zone of Kamchatka krai and the Chukotka Autonomous Okrug, an earthquake occurred on January 9, 2020, with M-S = 6.6 (M-W = 6.4) and an intensity at the epicenter of 9-9.5. The seismotectonic position of the source and nature of its seismogenic movement have been preliminarily determined. The seismic history of the region is considered, and the features of the aftershock process are characterized. Seismotectonic and seismological data on this event were acquired. A conclusion is drawn about the propagation of seismic activity to the northeast along the Khatyr-Vyvenskaya active fault zone in the period of 1991-2020. The earthquake was well predicted in the medium term.
Aim. Assessment of earthquake activity in the border areas of the south of the European part of Russia (excepting Crimea) over the past decade. Material and Methods. The main materials used are literary sources, as well as data from regional divisions of the Russian Ministry of Emergencies and the southern regional centre of the Federal State Budgetary Institution, Hydrospetsgeology, published in the open press. Results. The general picture of the distribution of earthquakes that occurred in 2009-2018 in the south of the European part of Russia (excepting Crimea) is given. In the territory of this region and in the 30-kilometre adjacent border zone of the neighboring states of Azerbaijan and Georgia (including Abkhazia and South Ossetia) 1768 earthquakes with an energy class of KR =2.5-14.2 occurred annually on average. A significant variation in the number of earthquakes in the region (from 1146 to 2214) was revealed. The largest number of seismic events was observed in 2009 and 2017 and the lowest in 2010. The greatest activity of earthquake manifestations was observed in Russian territory (62.1%), a significant share of seismic events (38.9%) occurring in the 30-kilometre adjacent border zone of the neighboring territories of the states of Azerbaijan and Georgia (including Abkhazia and South Ossetia). The largest number of earthquakes was observed in the eastern part of the North Caucasus (Dagestan, Chechnya and Ingushetia). Conclusion. The analysis conducted made it possible to assess the seismic hazard and activity of earthquakes from 2009 to 2018 in the territories of the border regions of the Russian Federation within the south of the European part of Russia (excepting Crimea).
We examine the impact of a major earthquake that unexpectedly affected the Canterbury region of New Zealand on a wide-range of birth outcomes, including birth weight, gestational age, and an indicator of general newborn health. We control for observed and unobserved differences between pregnant women in the area affected by the earthquake and other pregnant women by including mother fixed effects in all of our regression models. We extend the previous literature by comparing the impact of the initial unexpected earthquake to the impacts of thousands of aftershocks that occurred in the same region over the 18 months following the initial earthquake. We find that exposure to these earthquakes reduced gestational age, increased the likelihood of having a late birth, and negatively affected newborn health-with the largest effects for earthquakes that occurred in the first and third trimesters of pregnancy. Our estimates are similar when we focus on just the impact of the initial earthquake or, in contrast, on all earthquakes controlling for endogenous location decisions using an instrumental variables approach. This suggests that the previous estimates in the literature that use this approach are likely unbiased and that treatment effects are homogenous in the population. We present supporting evidence that the likely channel for these adverse effects is maternal stress.
Previous research has shown that online social networks can provide valuable insights regarding collective human responses to extreme natural events, such as earthquakes. Most previous studies focused on one large earthquake, while the 2019 Ridgecrest earthquakes involved two significant earthquakes occurring within a short period of time (a M6.4 foreshock on July 4 and a M7.1 mainshock on July 5 in southern California). These earthquakes were the first time in more than a decade that the southern California region, with an estimated population of 15 million, felt light to moderate shaking over an extended period of time. This valuable opportunity allows us to study how people respond dynamically to such sequences of extreme events. We collected 510,579 tweets about the 2019 Ridgecrest earthquakes to answer the following research questions: (1) Which Twitter accounts were the major players? Did they behave differently and get different responses? (2) How did the publics' response change during these sequential earthquakes? and (3) Which earthquake-related rumors were disseminated on Twitter during the earthquake sequence, by whom, and at what time?
Tangerang is one region in Banten Province Indonesia that has high earthquake potential because its located in the confluence zone of three continental tectonic plates that are continuously moving actively. Analysis of soil dynamic response is important as the first step in the earthquake-resistant structure's design. This study is aimed to give some descriptions of soil dynamics response results from a certain area due to seismic impulse. Seismic hazard analysis in this study used the Probabilistic Seismic Hazard Analysis (PSHA) method, while the earthquake acceleration profile and their response spectra have resulted from analysis of wave propagation theory with the assistance of NERA software. Based on the analysis result it can be concluded that the characteristics of the soil for the Tangerang region can be categorized as medium soil class. Earthquake acceleration value at bedrock was obtained in a range of values between 0.11g to 0.21g (g = gravity acceleration), while at the ground surface, the acceleration value was in the range of 0.18g to 0.38g. Based on the seismic zones, Tangerang Region can be included in the yellow zone according to the Indonesian Earthquake Map.
The source parameters of earthquakes in the Arctic during the entire instrumental period were calculated using a small number of stations, which in addition were remote from each other. Furthermore, during the 20th century, the source parameters of Arctic earthquakes were most often calculated from bulletin data from only part of the seismic stations operating at that time, using outdated velocity models and localization algorithms. The present article describes an approach that has already been successfully used by the authors to refine the source parameters of early instrumental earthquakes in the Arctic. The approach uses all currently available archives of bulletins and seismograms from the seismic stations that operated in the early 20th century; it also employs the modern ak135 velocity model and an improved localization algorithm implemented in the NAS program. We have relocated the epicenters of earthquakes recorded within the Arctic in the early 20th century and compiled an updated catalog of relocated seismic events. The relocation procedure was applied to 18 out of 25 earthquakes in the Arctic. The new coordinates of some earthquakes appeared to significantly differ from the previously determined ones. As a result, this may significantly affect the ultimate seismic hazard assessment of such areas as Severnaya Zemlya and Franz Josef Land, which are characterized by weak seismicity. Most of the relocated earthquake epicenters are confined to the main seismically active zones of the Arctic, namely, mid-ocean ridges, the Svalbard archipelago, and the Laptev Sea shelf.
SAR remote sensing has shown its excellence in providing important information for damage mapping in a large area. SAR change detection is a fast and efficient way to identify damaged buildings by comparing post-seismic to pre-seismic images. When a building collapses after an earthquake, the corresponding SAR signal could be stronger or weaker. So it is hard to decide whether a target is damaged by simple intensity difference or ratio. In this paper SAR correlation and texture are combined to explore the function between building damage degree and SAR texture change.
In this study, we tried to estimate the optimum linear equations among the parameters associated with different earthquake fault mechanisms for Iranian earthquakes. For this purpose, we tested different curve fitting methods in order to present the most proper empirical relationships between several seismic parameters for different fault systems. In the present paper, 46 large and destructive Iranian earthquakes whose magnitudes change between 5.8 and 7.8 from 1900 to 2014 were used for the analyses. A comparison was made by using four types of curve fitting techniques. The estimation procedures are considered as (1) L-2 or Least Squares Regression, (2) L-1 or Least Sum of Absolute Deviations Regression, (3) Robust Regression and, (4) Orthogonal Regression. Confidence intervals were selected as 95% for all types of regression relationships. In the selection of the best probability distribution, we considered the correlation coefficients of the linear regressions as a powerful and conceptually simple method. Correlation coefficients of all relationships change between 0.299 and 0.986 with Orthogonal regression, between 0.168 and 0.792 with L-1 regression, between 0.059 and 0.829 with Robust regression. For Iranian earthquakes, the most suitable and reliable empirical relationships between moment magnitude (Mw) and surface wave magnitude (Ms), Mw and surface rupture length (SRL), Mw and maximum displacement (MD), and SRL and MD were obtained by Orthogonal regression since it supplies stronger correlation coefficients than those of the other regression techniques in most estimates. The results show that estimated empirical relationships among the different fault parameters by using the Orthogonal regression method can be accepted as more up-to-date and more appropriate in comparison with the other regression norms. Consequently, these equations were suggested as more reliable in the estimation of the maximum surface displacement, maximum surface rupture length and associated with the maximum credible earthquakes for different areas of Iran. Furthermore, obtained relationships can be statistically significant for the assessment of seismic, tectonic and geologic activities, and they can be used to evaluate the rupture hazard of the Iranian Plateau.
On 20 April 2013, a moment magnitude (Mw) 6.6 earthquake occurred in the Lushan region of southwestern China and caused more than 190 fatalities. In this study, we use geodetic data from nearly 30 continuously operating global positioning system (GPS) stations, two periods of leveling data, and interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR) observations to image the coseismic deformation of the Lushan earthquake. By using the Helmert variance component estimation method, a joint inversion is performed to estimate source parameters by using these GPS, leveling, and InSAR data sets. The results indicate that the 2013 Lushan earthquake occurred on a blind thrust fault. The event was dominated by thrust faulting with a minor left-lateral strike-slip component. The dip angle of the seismogenic fault was approximately 45.0 degrees, and the fault strike was 208 degrees, which is similar to the strike of the southern Longmenshan fault. Our finite fault model reveals that the peak slip of 0.71 m occurred at a depth of 12 km, with substantial slip at depths of 6-20 km. The estimated magnitude was approximately Mw 6.6, consistent with seismological results. Furthermore, the calculated static Coulomb stress changes indicate that the 2013 Lushan earthquake may have been statically triggered by the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake.
News agencies have the leading role of deciding what coverage is given on earthquakes. This study exploits the use of text mining tools to automatically map in near real-time earthquake events with newspaper articles. An application was developed to automatically download multilingual news articles published by 23 leading news agencies in real-time from six continents around the world. Articles discussing earthquakes are then identified; clustered using TF-IDF and cosine similarity; and processed for information extraction. Earthquake-related features that are mined include the magnitude, location and timestamp from the corresponding news reports, as well as the number of casualties, injured and structural damage caused. Cluster information extraction is also carried out for cross-referencing purposes. Each cluster is then mapped against earthquake events, aggregated from seismic readings stored by United States Geological Survey (USGS). The results are visualised on two dashboards and complemented with a series of tests evaluating the accuracy of the extraction of information and clustering of data, followed by conclusions and recommendations for future work in this domain area. This tool paves the way for a more in-depth analysis on the possible temporal correlation (how long the disaster and its effects remain discussed in the news) and spatial correlation (geographical distance between news sources reporting the event and the location of the disaster itself) that may exist between newspaper articles and earthquakes.
Earthquake-related studies on seismicity and seismic hazard assessment need a homogenous earthquake catalog for the region studied. A homogenous earthquake catalog for Northeast India region was compiled using derived regional and global empirical relationships between different magnitudes and moment magnitude based on an improved error-corrected methodology suggested in the recent literature. To convert smaller magnitude earthquakes, global empirical equations were derived and used. A procedure is suggested to change different magnitudes into moment magnitude. A homogenous earthquake catalog of 9845 events was compiled for the time period 1897-2012. Entire magnitude range (EMR) was found to be the most reasonable method for estimating magnitude of completeness. Derived local and global empirical equations are useful for every seismic hazard or seismicity study. A complete and consistent homogenized earthquake catalog prepared in this study could provide good data for studying earthquake distribution in Northeast India. By carefully converting these original magnitudes into homogenized M-w magnitudes, an obstacle is removed for the consistent assessment of seismic hazards in Northeast India.
The 2015 Gorkha earthquake (7.8 Mw) triggered thousands of landslides in the highlands of central Nepal, causing widespread vegetation damage. After the earthquake, several attempts were made by the government to recover damaged vegetation; however, the efficacy of artificial restoration (from public finance) vs. self ecological restoration is unknown. We analyze the vegetation recovery process of the areas impacted by the 2015 Gorkha earthquake landslides with a dual-lens: (1) remote sensing and (2) public finance and policy. Using remote sensing, Vegetation Recovery Rate (VRR) is estimated from the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) from Landsat imagery between 2015 and 2021. Then public finance data is analyzed to compare the efficacy of vegetation recovery from the artificial vs. self-ecological restoration. The study examines fourteen severely impacted districts from the Gorkha earthquake in 2015. Out of 24,826 landslides triggered by the earthquake, ~95% of vegetation damage was caused by 13,670 large landslides (with area > 0.09 ha). A total of 8651.58 ha of vegetation was lost due to landslides induced by the 2015 Gorkha earthquake. About 4442 ha (51%) of such lost vegetation has been restored so far. Only 9.5% of this restored vegetation was due to artificial restoration, while the remaining 90.5% was by self-ecological restoration process in protected areas. Furthermore, VRR analysis showed that at least nine years are required to restore vegetation cover to the pre-earthquake level (R-2 = 0.91). The government had invested 3.73 million USD in this duration for artificial restoration. Our findings suggest that strict protection promotes self-ecological restoration, an effective tract for vegetation recovery, over artificial interventions. Findings provide insights for plausible decision-making in restoring lost vegetation due to earthquake-triggered landslides.
Supplementary energy dissipation is an efficient technique for the retrofitting of as built framed buildings as long as the loss of capacity due to previous seismic degradation is evaluated properly. Most of the displacement-based design procedure of damped braces only considers the capacity curve of an initially undamaged structure, while the hysteretic energy is accounted for by an equivalent viscous damping. However, structures may be initially damaged by previous earthquakes, so the proportioning of the damped braces should include the effects of the cumulative damage caused by previous loading cycles. A displacement-damage-based design procedure is proposed and implemented by means of a computer-aided tool named DAMPERS (DAMage Protection of Earthquake Resistant Structures). The residual capacity that a building might experience when subjected to more than one earthquake during its nominal life is taken into account. The loss of capacity of the original structure is evaluated by a combined plastic-damage model, obtained as an in-parallel combination of elastic-perfectly plastic and elastic-softening damage mechanisms, and a damage index, accounting for the cyclic damage of each pair of mechanisms. An archetype six-storey reinforced concrete framed building, representative of the Italian residential housing stock constructed during the 1990s, is retrofitted with hysteretic damped braces designed assuming different damage evolution laws during previous earthquakes. Three configurations of masonry infills (MIs) are considered: bare frame, with nonstructural MIs; infilled frame, with a uniform in-elevation distribution of structural MIs; pilotis frame, with no MIs at the ground floor and structural MIs at the other floors. OpenSees is the computational platform for the nonlinear seismic analysis of the unbraced and damped braced structures, with reference to records scaled in line with the hypotheses adopted and considering failure modes of structural and nonstructural elements.
Recurrent groundwater radon anomalies were observed at the Paihe spring (P1) in southwestern Taiwan prior to the M-w 6.3 Jiasian and M-w 6.4 Meinong earthquakes that occurred on March 4, 2010 and February 5, 2016, respectively. Specifically, the concentration of groundwater radon decreased from background levels of 144 +/- 7 and 137 +/- 8 pCi/L to minima of 104 +/- 8 and 97 +/- 9 pCi/L prior to the 2010 Jiasian and 2016 Meinong earthquakes, respectively. The Paihe spring (P1) is located 46 km and 45 km, respectively, from the epicenters of the 2010 M-w 6.3 Jiasian and 2016 M-w 6.4 Meinong earthquakes. The above radon anomalies observed at the Paihe limestone spring corroborated that a small fractured aquifer can be used as an effective natural strain meter by applying radon as a tracer for earthquake warning in southwestern Taiwan. There are scientific difficulties and uncertainties in earthquake prediction. Nonetheless, a long-term monitoring of precursory declines in groundwater radon can provide useful data for forecasting local disastrous earthquakes.
In a recent study, Hough and Martin (2021) considered the extent to which socioeconomic factors influence the numbers and distribution of contributed reports available to characterize the effects of both historical and recent large earthquakes. In this study I explore the question further, focusing on analysis of widely felt earthquakes near major population centers in northern and southern California since 2002. For most of these earthquakes there is a correlation between average household income in a postal ZIP code and the population-normalized rate of responses to the DYFI system. As past studies have demonstrated, there is also a strong correlation between DYFI participation and the severity of shaking. This first-order correlation can obscure correlations with other factors that influence participation. Focusing on five earthquakes between 2011 and 2021 that generated especially uniform shaking across the greater Los Angeles, California, region, response rate varies by two orders of magnitude across the region, with a clear correlation with demographics, and consistent spatial patterns in response rate for earthquakes 10 years apart. While there is no evidence that uneven DYFI participation in California impacts significantly the reliability of intensity data collected, the results reveal that DYFI participation is significantly higher in affluent parts of southern California compared to economically disadvantaged areas.
We test the feasibility of GPS-based rapid centroid moment tensor (GPS CMT) methods for Taiwan, one of the most earthquake prone areas in the world. In recent years, Taiwan has become a leading developer of seismometer-based earthquake early warning systems, which have successfully been applied to several large events. The rapid determination of earthquake magnitude and focal mechanism, important for a number of rapid response applications, including tsunami warning, is still challenging because of the limitations of near-field inertial recordings. This instrumental issue can be solved by an entirely different observation system: a GPS network. Taiwan is well posed to take advantage of GPS because in the last decade it has developed a very dense network. Thus, in this research, we explore the suitability of the GPS CMT inversion for Taiwan. We retrospectively investigate six moderate to large (M(w)6.0 similar to 7.0) earthquakes and propose a resolution test for our model, we find that the minimum resolvable earthquake magnitude of this system is similar to M(w)5.5 (at 5 km depth). Our tests also suggest that the finite fault complexity, often challenging for the near-field methodology, can be ignored under such good station coverage and thus, can provide a fast and robust solution for large earthquake directly from the near field. Our findings help to understand and quantify how the proposed methodology could be implemented in real time and what its contributions could be to the overall earthquake monitoring system.
Existing Earthquake Early Warning Systems (EEWSs) calculates the location and magnitude of an earthquake using real-time waveforms from seismic stations within a few seconds. Typically, three to six stations are necessary to estimate earthquake parameters. Waiting for primary (P-) wave information from closest stations results in a blind-zone area where the arrival of secondary (S-) wave cannot be provided around the epicenter of an earthquake. If an earthquake occurred under a city center, EEWSs would not work even though each building has a seismic sensor in a smart city in future. Here, we present a methodology to classify earthquake vibrations into near-source or far-source within one second after P-wave detection. This will allow warnings to citizens who are the residence of earthquake epicenter in case of an earthquake very close by. We trained a deep learning Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network for sequence-to -label classification. 305 three component accelerations recorded between 2000 and 2018 in Japan are used to train the artificial network by extracting thirteen features of one second of P-wave. The accuracy of the methodology is 98.2%. 54 out of 55 near-source waveforms classified correctly and only 2 of 80 waveforms were misclassified. We tested the LSTM network with 2018 Northern Osaka (M 6.1.) earthquakes in Japan where closest stations are correctly identified with 83.3% accuracy. Therefore, smart cities donated with smart automated shut-on/off machines and sensors will be more resilient against earthquake disaster even EEWSs are not available in the blind zone area in future. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The 2015 moment magnitude (Mw) 8.3 Illapel earthquake, that ruptured the central section of the Chilean subduction zone, is among the largest megathrust events in recent years. The coseismic rupture processes of the Illapel earthquake are imaged by the back-projection (BP) method in previous studies. But these models differ significantly in the extent of high-frequency radiations in the along-dip direction. Here, we conduct a refined High-resolution MUSIC BP imaging analysis of the Illapel earthquake based on teleseismic recordings in continental US. In contrast to conventional BP imaging, we add a slowness (ray parameter) error term calculated based on aftershock locations to effectively mitigate the spatial biases of BP. This correction accounts for the P-wave travel time errors at each receiver as a result of approximating the 3D Earth structure with 1D models. The calibrated BP images of aftershocks indicate that the root mean-square location error was reduced from 24.17 km to 8.11 km. Our refined BP of the mainshock reveals geometrical rupture complexity with unprecedented details, involving stages of diverse rupture speeds and simultaneous up-dip and down-dip high-frequency bursts. The earthquake starts with a slow initiation phase propagating northward at a speed of 1 km/s in the first 13 s. Between 14 s to 34 s, the rupture diverges into two simultaneous fronts seemingly unzipping the rim of a circular patch of large slip at a speed of 3.5 km/s. The two fronts reemerge as a single front between 35 s and 45 s. The rupture splitting repeats in a second episode from 46 s to 60 s. The two episodes of encircling rupture involve intermittent high-frequency radiations both up-dip and down-dip, which reconcile the discrepancy of the extent of along-dip ruptures reported in previous BP studies. Key features of the rupture process correlate with the prominent pulses recorded by local strong-motion network. In one possible scenario, the rupture initially encounters and splits around a barrier of higher strength or an asperity of higher prestress but eventually breaks into the asperity/barrier and produces large slip in the center. Another scenario is the cascade-up growth model in which the nucleation process initiates inside a small weak patch and tends to grow into large-scale rupture surrounding the rim of a larger and stronger patch. Such degree of complexity is previously only reproduced in dynamic simulations but is directly observed with sufficient level of details for the first time. This case study demonstrates the capability of the BP method, enhanced by aftershock calibrations, to observe and probe the geometrical complexity of dynamic ruptures. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Social media play an increasingly important role in effective risk communication for disasters like earthquakes. This study investigates a Facebook discussion group for disaster risk communication in Alaska, comparing patterns of use during periods of low magnitude activity and during the January 2018 M7.9 Gulf of Alaska earthquake. Findings illuminate the functions the group serves for different users, with public members and staff using it for both informational and social/emotional reasons, such as seeking/providing reassurance, building trust, and expressing earthquake country attitudes rooted in regional identity. Moreover, key functions vary throughout the earthquake cycle, with a focus on relationship-building and two-way communication during the interevent period and on controlling quality and accessibility following major events. These results contribute to theory on disaster social media and provide practical insights for organizations using social media for risk communication, including accounting for unique audience motivations and the role of place and regional identity.
This retrospective chart review aimed to examine both the vestibular function and causes of dizziness experienced by individuals following a series of major earthquakes and repetitive aftershocks. All patients with balance disorders who experienced the 2016 Kumamoto earthquakes and their aftershocks completed questionnaires relevant to balance disorders and were enrolled in this study after providing informed consent. There were 2.8 times more patients with balance disorders post the earthquake. Anxiety (P = 0.02), orthostatic dysregulation (P = 0.005), and motion sickness scores (P = 0.03) were all significantly higher after the earthquakes. A subset of participants underwent clinical equilibrium testing, showing significant deteriorations in the equilibrium test results (stabilometry: P = 0.01), cervical vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (P = 0.04), and head-up tilt (P = 0.03) after the earthquake. The findings of this study also suggest that earthquake-induced disequilibrium may be further influenced by physical stressors, including sensory disruptions induced by earthquake vibrations, changes in the living conditions, and autonomic stress. This study increases our understanding of human equilibrium in response to natural disasters. Moreover, these findings will facilitate the management of dizziness experienced during or after such disasters. Future studies should identify strategies for mitigating autonomic dysfunction to prevent post-earthquake dizziness.
Based on the deformation data measured by the Baksan laser interferometer-strainmeter, Earth's free oscillations (EFO) excited by the Okhotsk Sea deep-focus earthquake of May 24, 2013, the largest recorded deep-focus earthquake, are analyzed. The periods of 50 fundamental modes of EFO in the range 1.2-5.0 mHz are determined with an error of 3-12 Hz. The comparison of the EFO spectra for the May 24, 2013, Okhotsk Sea deep-focus earthquake the November 15, 2006, Simushir shallow-focus earthquake revealed a number of features of EFO excitation by the deep-focus earthquake. It is found that more overtones (both spheroidal and toroidal) are observed for the deep-focus earthquake. The amplitude values of the observed EFOmodes for the deep-focus earthquake are greater than for the shallow-focus earthquake, with a smaller observed deformation. The presence of interacting spheroidal and toroidal modes being close in frequency (coupling effect) is revealed. A method is proposed that can obtain an estimate of the EFO modes, which are not observed explicitly in the spectrum, from the beat period between close frequencies. Application of the method to the deformation data made it possible to find the frequencies of nine pairs of close EFO modes.
Surface topography (whether subaerial or submarine) is a product of plate tectonic, geological, climate and surface processes. Plate tectonic processes, predominantly operated through earthquake cycle, dominate, at least in the seismically active regions, and are responsible for a significant amount of topography build up. On a shorter time scale, they appear to cause devastation, but on a longer time scale, they lead to the development of diverse landscapes which not only makes them look beautiful but also inhabitable. The topography build-up, due to deformation caused by earthquake processes, depends upon the mechanism of deformation and earthquake occurrence. The earthquake occurrence mechanism is different in the plate boundary regions as compared to that in the plate interior regions. Here in this article, I discuss the nuances of crustal deformation in the interplate and intraplate regions in the context of India and India plate.
Coseismic landslides are a major source of transportation disruption in mountainous areas, but few approaches exist for rapidly estimating impacts to road networks. We develop a model that links the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) near-real-time earthquake-triggered landslide hazard model with Open Street Map (OSM) road network data to rapidly estimate segment-level obstruction risk following major earthquake activity worldwide. To train and validate the model, we process OSM data for 15 historical earthquakes and calculate the average segment-level landslide hazard from the USGS model for each event. We then fit a multivariate adaptive regression spline model for the probability of road obstruction as a function of road segment length and landslide hazard, using a training and validation dataset derived from the intersections of road networks with earthquake-triggered landslide inventories. The resulting probabilistic model is well calibrated across a range of earthquake events, with estimated obstruction probabilities matching the relative frequency of potential road obstructions. The model runs quickly and is capable of producing road segment-level obstruction estimates within minutes to hours of a major earthquake. However, in near-real-time application, the accuracy of the obstruction estimates will be dependent on the quality of the ShakeMap shaking estimates, which often improves with time as more information becomes available after the earthquake. By providing a rapid first-order translation of landslide hazard into potential infrastructure impacts, this model helps provide emergency responders with tangible information on initial areas of concern.
This paper outlines an optimisation model for land use planning which could be used by public officials and other stakeholders to prepare a risk-sensitive development plan fulfilling standard regulations of urban planning with an emphasis on earthquake protection. The presented model is based on a mixed integer quadratic programming method that produces an optimal land use distribution for a given urban area. A number of standard planning criteria namely land use suitability, accessibility and permeability to critical facilities and public services, land use resistance to change, provision of required land uses, as well as seismic hazard avoidance have been incorporated into the model. The performance of the model has been verified by benchmarking the generated outputs against expert-made plans for a pilot area in District 17th of the city of Tehran, Iran.
Natural disasters, particularly earthquakes, in addition to physical complications, have always had psychological consequences for those affected by them. Stuttering is one of the psychological consequences of shocking events. After a 6.6 magnitude earthquake in Hojedk, Kerman, Iran, two 5-year-old children and a 4-year-old child with symptoms of discontinuous speech (including repeated sound, syllable, and words) were referred to the Kerman Welfare Organization's rehabilitation center (Kerman, Iran). After history-taking, it became clear that the children had begun to stutter after the earthquake due to fear and stress. Considering the importance of negative emotional experiences in the onset of stuttering, it cannot really be said with certainty that the negative experience of the earthquake initiated the stuttering. Rather, the stuttering had not been present before the earthquake and appeared after the event. These cases indicate the importance of psychosocial support and speech therapy after disasters, especially for children that have higher psychological vulnerability than other age groups.
After a large-scale earthquake, the road is susceptible to get blocked by liquefaction or building collapse, and that results in disaster-relief difficulty. This study adopted two earthquake loss estimation systems in Taiwan, and the risk of road blockage caused by liquefaction or building collapse was calculated separately. A new modeling was proposed, and the comparisons of the results of a single factor and that of the joint factors were made. Four scenarios of peak ground acceleration (PGA) = 250, 400, 550, 750 Gal were tested. The result shows that the probability of road blockage due to liquefaction almost reaches the maximum when PGA hits 400 Gal. On the other hand, the probability of road blockage due to building collapse increases if PGA increases. The joint probability of road blockage due to liquefaction and building collapse can improve the underestimation when using either one factor, and it can evaluate the risk more realistically. At present, there is no risk assessment modeling considering two important factors for disaster-relief road planning in Taiwan. This study provides a simple and comprehensive disaster-relief road risk assessment modeling to make better emergency rescue plans. In addition, it can provide the information for conducting seismic strengthening policy for both sides of the disaster-relief road that can reduce the risk of obstacles to disaster-relief roads.
The Cascadia subduction zone fault lies just off the Pacific coast of the USA and Canada. Although this fault has been seismically inactive over the written history of the Cascadia region, it has the potential to produce catastrophic earthquakes and tsunamis. A variety of dating methods have been used to show that the most recent Cascadia earthquake occurred in 1700. Among these methods is an informal analysis of oral traditions handed down by Native American peoples that appear to refer to a major earthquake in this region. A central difficulty in analyzing these narratives quantitatively is their use of a generation and other qualitative measures of time that have no fixed lengths. Here, these narratives are analyzed under an explicit statistical model of the lengths of these measures. The results raise a question about the previous conclusion that these narratives all refer to the most recent Cascadia earthquake.
Seismicity characteristics in the Cascadia subduction zone located west of North America are considered. It has been established that, since 1964, shallow (h = 0-33 km) ring-shaped seismicity structures with threshold magnitudes M-t of 4.4 and 4.6, respectively, have been formed prior to two large earthquakes (on August 17, 1991, M-w = 7.1 and April 25, 1992, M-w = 7.2). Note that, unlike many other subduction zones, deep ring-shaped structures (h = 34-70 km) have not been observed here. At the same time, deep seismicity strips are sometimes formed in this zone. Two new ring-shaped structures with M-t equal to 5.0 and 5.2, which began to form here since 1973, are distinguished. There are grounds to suppose that large earthquakes can be expected in the regions of these structures. We estimate the magnitudes of possible large earthquakes: M-w = 7.8 and 7.9 on the basis of the correlation dependences of the seismicity ring sizes and M-t values on the magnitudes of major events obtained earlier for the East Pacific. These data allowed us to conclude that processes of preparation for a great earthquake with M-w 9.0, similar to the 1700 event, did not begin in the subduction zone. At the same time, a large earthquake (M-w=7.9 +/- 0.1) is possible in a few years in the region of Vancouver Island. We suppose that the formation of shallow rings and deep strips of seismicity is related to deep fluid migration, as occurs in other regions.
The problem of estimating efficiency and comparing different earthquake prediction algorithms remains pivotal for operational decision making and reducing losses from earthquakes. Healy et al. (1992) considered this problem in terms of strict mathematical analysis of the prediction outcomes in the design of Global Testing of the algorithm M8. For 30 years now, every six months, this earthquake prediction algorithm has been applied globally, determining in real time the areas in which the World's largest earthquakes are most likely to occur in the current half-year. To date, the statistics of the results obtained in this Global Test indicates, with reliability higher than 99%, a fairly high efficiency of forecasts using the M8 algorithm, as well as in its combination with the MSc algorithm, which specifies the localization of the source zone of the expected earthquake. Thus, the null hypothesis of random occurrence in seismically active regions is rejected with seismological certainty, at least for the World's largest earthquakes. The results of this experimental testing are an indirect confirmation of the predictability of strong earthquakes, as well as the existence of common dynamic characteristics and diverse behavior during phase transitions in a complex hierarchical nonlinear system of faults-and-blocks of the Earth's lithosphere (Keilis-Borok, 1990).
Earthquake prediction refers to predicting the magnitude, location, and time of earthquakes and is challenging. Four attempts to predict the magnitude, location, and time of the laboratory earthquake of granite were made. First, the stick-slip failure process of granite samples was studied by a homemade test setup, and the whole process was monitored in real-time by strip strain gauges, rosette strain gauges, and acoustic emission (AE) transducers. Second, six parameters related to the stress drop were selected: dry density, Young's modulus, loading rate, static friction coefficient of the interface, normal stress, and shear stress. The prediction model of stress drop was established based on a backpropagation neural network (BPNN) considering the above six parameters. The stress drop in this paper is positively correlated with the released energy (magnitude) when the simulated fault slips suddenly. Third, the simulated fault interface was scanned by a high-precision 3D topography scanner before the stick-slip tests, and then the 3D topography scanning image was quantitatively measured based on digital image processing (DIP). According to the measurement results, the relationship between the nucleation position and the microstructure of the simulated fault interface was discussed. Fourth, the characteristics of AE parameters (absolute energy, ringing count rate, amplitude, b1 value) in the stick-slip process were studied. This paper aims to determine the precursory factors of sudden slip. This study helps explain the mechanism of shallow-focus earthquakes.
Pohang earthquake (Main shock magnitude = 5.4) occurred in Southeastern region of South Korea in November 15, 2017. Groundwater levels of 6 monitoring wells with 5 minutes interval measurements located in that region and stream water levels of 4 stations located along the Hyeongsan-gang stream are used for the analysis of earthquake induced effects. Four groundwater monitoring wells show a short-term decrease of groundwater level after a main shock and one well does an increase and the maximum change is about 42.0 cm. Especially, groundwater levels at two monitoring wells near the epicenter are consistently maintained after a decrease. There is little relationship between earthquake magnitude or a distance to epicenter and changing amount of groundwater level and it may be due to the inhomogeneity of geologic material and unconsolidated sediments distribution. The changes in permeability of fractured zone and groundwater levels occasionally cause changes in stream flow rate, and water level of the Hyeongsan-gang stream in the study area decreases just after the earthquake and increases again up to the normal level and next shows an more gentle decreasing slope. Total increasing flow rates at S1 (upstream site) and S4 (downstream site) stations are about 12,096 m(3) and 116,640 m(3), respectively, during the increasing period.
Emergency communication network (ECN) is the important infrastructure to acquire the real-time information after disaster, which is essential for rescue task. However, the existed routing protocols seldom consider the uneven distribution of rescue area so that cannot satisfy the ECN's requirement and the quality of rescue needs improvement. In this paper, we avoided the traditional linear propulsion from rim to core and proposed a novel four-quadrant mobility model (FQMM), which makes rescuers arrive the most intensity core area first, which can improve the rescue quality. Then, a FQMM-based protocol (FQMMBP) for ECN is designed, which aims to improve the performance of ECN in terms of package delivery rate (PDR) and end-to-end delay. Finally, we set up a virtual earthquake scenario to simulate our proposed protocol in NS2. Results show that the proposed protocol outperforms to the three compared routing protocols, i.e., AODV, DSDV and DSR. The average FDR is improved by 16.31%, and the average reduction of delay is 64.45%, which shows our proposed scheme's advantages in quality of rescue.
With the rapid development of aerospace technology, high-resolution remote sensing technology has been more and more widely used in disaster Reduction and Relief. On April 20th, 2013, a magnitude 7.0 earthquake occurred in Lushan County, Sichuan Province, which caused extensive damage on housing and road, and led to seismic secondary disasters such as mountain collapse and landslides. Based on the Reservoir emergency platform, this paper obtained high-resolution satellite remote sensing images and aerial images in Lushan County, Baosheng Town, and Taiping Town during the earthquake. The paper interpretated Images based on disaster characteristics, extracted and analyzed targets such as landslide bodies and roads, and monitored and assessed disaster conditions based on the results of extraction.
We map the distribution of macroseismic intensities from the M-w 6.9 Kani and the M-w 6.8 Chauk intra-slab earthquakes in 2016 in Myanmar using the 1998 European Macroseismic Scale (EMS-98) by interpreting data gathered from field surveys, community responses sent via social media to the Myanmar Earthquake Committee (MEC), and digital news reports. Our macroseismic maps for both events provide better spatial data coverage in Myanmar, India, and Bangladesh than community derived macroseismic maps (e.g., U.S. Geological Survey's Did You Feel It?). In Myanmar, this was driven by improved telecommunication that has allowed social media such as the Burmese language Facebook portal of the Myanmar Earthquake Committee (MEC) to reach into rural areas from where reports of shaking effects from earthquakes have been previously unavailable. Our analysis of both the macroseismic intensities and strong motion observations from India and Myanmar suggests the two earthquakes had different source properties. The comparison of our intensity data with instrumental strong motion records also suggests the peak ground motion-intensity relationship by Worden et al. (2012) generally performs well for both earthquakes. In addition, ground motion behaviour within the Burma and Indian plates can be related to different existing ground motion prediction equations (GMPEs) and intensity prediction equations (IPEs) for subduction zones and for stable continental regions respectively. We therefore suggest these effects will need to be considered in future regional seismic hazard models or Shake Maps for this region when evaluating the impact of the future events.
We propose a rapid, finite-fault inversion procedure to derive first-order estimates of the coseismic slip following large Mw > 7 earthquakes in Mexico using teleseismic P waves obtained in near real time. The procedure uses kinematic fault parameters and waveform properties prescribed based on the magnitude of the event. Two consecutive inversions are performed, one for each of the two nodal planes in the earthquake source mechanism, allowing an automated analysis of the P-wave dataset with minimal manual intervention. Following the inversion process, the appropriate slip model is selected based on seismotectonic considerations in the earthquake source region. The inversion procedure was applied to the Mw 7 Acapulco subduction earthquake of 8 September 2021 using the source parameters posted online by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), resulting in the derivation of a preliminary, first-order source model within 1 h after the event. The slip model shows a single source region similar to the rupture area observed by the USGS using body- and surface-wave records. We also conducted a rapid analysis of the teleseismic P waves available for the Mw 8.2 normal-faulting Chiapas earthquake of 8 September 2017 and recovered a slip model comparable to the finite-fault model obtained by the USGS for that event. For both earthquakes, the time required for waveform retrieval and analysis was less than 5 min, indicating that the procedure can be used to derive timely, preliminary slip models for large Mexico events that would be useful for earthquake early alerting and post-earthquake response.
The fourteenth to seventeenth century seismicity of southern Dalmatia (Croatia) and coastal Montenegro deserved to be fully reappraised because of the ascertained imperfect knowledge offered by modern seismological studies and of the awareness of the smokescreen effect due to the large 6 April 1667 M 6.4 earthquake that impacted exactly the area of study. The investigation consisted of (i) a reconsideration of earthquake records made available by previous studies and (ii) a systematic analysis of historical sources contemporary to the earthquakes, especially those not yet taken into account in seismological studies. The 168 contemporary and independent records collected cast a different light on more than 300 years of seismicity of this area. Records are reckoned to be unevenly distributed among the 39 studied earthquakes, out of which 15 still rely upon a single testimony. Each record has been reevaluated with respect to its content and attributed a level of reliability, which for those reporting other 14 events was so low to prevent us from confirming their real occurrence. Completely unreliable records have been identified and discussed, to conclude that they are at the root of five fake earthquakes. Altogether, 34 intensity values in EMS-98 were assessed related to 15 moderate and five damaging earthquakes. Existing and newly obtained data contributed to putting the pre-1667 seismicity of southern Dalmatia and coastal Montenegro into a substantially different perspective.
A reliable and homogenized earthquake catalogue is essential for seismic hazard assessment in any area. This article describes the compilation and processing of an updated earthquake catalogue for Pakistan. The earthquake catalogue compiled in this study for the region (quadrangle bounded by the geographical limits 40-83A degrees N and 20-40A degrees E) includes 36,563 earthquake events, which are reported as 4.0-8.3 moment magnitude (M (W)) and span from 25 AD to 2016. Relationships are developed between the moment magnitude and body, and surface wave magnitude scales to unify the catalogue in terms of magnitude M (W). The catalogue includes earthquakes from Pakistan and neighbouring countries to minimize the effects of geopolitical boundaries in seismic hazard assessment studies. Earthquakes reported by local and international agencies as well as individual catalogues are included. The proposed catalogue is further used to obtain magnitude of completeness after removal of dependent events by using four different algorithms. Finally, seismicity parameters of the seismic sources are reported, and recommendations are made for seismic hazard assessment studies in Pakistan.
Intercity networks constitute a highly important civil infrastructure in developed countries, as they contribute to the prosperity and development of the connected communities. This was evident after recent strong earthquakes that caused extensive structural damage to key transportation components, such as bridges, overpasses, tunnels and geotechnical works, that in turn led to a significant additional loss associated with the prolonged traffic disruption. In cases of seismic events in developed societies with complex and coupled intercity transportation systems, the interdependency between citizens' life and road functionality has further amplified the seismically-induced loss. Quantifying therefore, the resilience of road networks, defined as their ability to withstand, adapt to, and rapidly recover after a disruptive event, is a challenging issue of paramount importance towards holistic disaster risk mitigation and management. This study takes into account the above aspects of network resilience to earthquake loading and establishes a comprehensive, multi-criterion framework for mitigating the overall loss expected to be experienced by the community due to future earthquake events. The latter is decoupled into the direct structural damage-related loss and the indirect loss associated with the travel delays of the network users, as well as the wider socio-economic consequences in the affected area. In order to reflect the multi-dimensional nature of loss, a set of novel, time-variant indicators is herein introduced, while cumulative indicators are proposed for assessing the total loss incurred throughout the entire recovery period. This probabilistic risk management framework is implemented into a software to facilitate informed decisions of the stakeholders, both before and after a major earthquake event, thus prioritizing the pre-disruption strengthening schemes and accelerating the inspection and recovery measures, respectively.
Earthquakes have brought fear to humans due to their unpredictable nature and vast capacity for ruination. The spatial point process plays an essential role in investigating spatial statistics and has become an active research area. This study investigates the behavior of earthquake occurrences using the Strauss point model. The intensity and spatial association among these seismic events are examined using distance-based G-function and model fitting. Dataset used in this study is the earthquakes that occurred in various parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Pakistan. Results reveal that the intensity plot exhibits the clustered pattern of earthquake events. Distance-based G-function indicates that the distance from one massive earthquake (magnitude greater than 5) to another large earthquake is 1500 m, demonstrating that the large earthquakes occurred close to each other. The estimated parameters of the models suggest that the intensity of the events is inversely proportional to the distance. The intensity of the earthquake events also increases as the depth decreases. The point pattern modeling results show that the Strauss point model is competent to capture the pattern of the earthquake locations depending upon the interaction between earthquakes of different magnitude. Results disclosed that an additional exploratory variable (depth of earthquake) in the model offers performance gain as compared to the single exploratory variable. Strauss model comprehensively examines the dataset.
Various physical, geophysical, geochemical, electrical and hydrological parameters are measured on the surface and in shallow/deep boreholes throughout mainland China to obtain early warning signals of impending earthquakes. Numerous wells are equipped with water level and temperature sensors for continuous observations of the water level and groundwater temperature. An analysis of water temperature data from boreholes equipped with water temperature sensors reveals that nearly half of the boreholes show coseismic response associated with the Wenchuan earthquake (M-w 7.9, 12 May, 2008). The coseismic response of the groundwater temperature cannot be differentiated from the groundwater flow or movement when the earthquake occurred, but there is no fixed relationship between the temperature variation and the water flow. At the same time, we observed that the rock temperature in dry wells can record the seismic events and even the pre-seismic abnormal information. The spatial distribution of the coseismic groundwater temperature response is random and irregular, which does not support the dislocation model of seismic faults at the regional or larger scale. Changes in the groundwater temperature are closely related to the borehole temperature gradient, lithology profile and geological environment of the borehole and depths of the aquifers. The mechanism of the coseismic groundwater temperature response can be explained by an enhanced permeability induced by an earthquake. The groundwater temperature increases if the temperature sensor in the borehole is located near the deep-circulating aquifer and decreases if the sensor is near the shallow-circulating aquifer when seismic waves arrive. The groundwater temperature may be slightly affected or even unchanged if the temperature sensor is far from the aquifer during the propagation of seismic waves. However, it was hard to conclude the changes of rock temperature observed in six dry wells.
The dynamic characteristics of a bottom-fixed offshore wind turbine (OWT) under earthquakes are analyzed by developing an integrated analysis model of the OWT. Further, the influence of the interactions between the rotor and support system on the structural responses of the OWT subjected to an earthquake is discussed. Moreover, a passive control method using a tuned mass damper (TMD) is applied to the OWT to control the responses under earthquakes. The effects of the mass ratio, location and tuned frequency of the TMD on controlling structural responses of the OWT under different recorded seismic waves are studied.
A study of the dynamic response of a circular bridge pier forced simultaneously by earthquake and wave-current actions is presented. On the basis of diffraction wave theory, the analytic solution for the diffraction of incident waves with uniform current on a circular pier is given. On the basis of the radiation wave theory, the analytic solution for the hydrodynamic pressures on a circular pier induced by combined earthquake and wave-current action is obtained. Further, the solution for the dynamic responses of the pier under combined earthquake and wave-current action is obtained by treating the pier as a cantilever beam governed by beam theory. Last, the effects of hydrodynamic force, wave force, wave-current interaction, and surface wave condition on the dynamic responses of the pier are investigated. The results may be used for engineering practice and further research.
Large earthquakes initiate at small nucleation sites and propagate as rupture fronts along the host fault. It is inherently challenging to resolve the complexity of fault rupture at depth, and therefore, the evolution of frictional strength during earthquakes is commonly analyzed in laboratory experiments. We experimentally demonstrate here that this evolution depends simultaneously on all slip kinematic components: displacement, velocity and acceleration. We incorporate these components in shear experiments with slip-histories that resemble the theoretical expectations for earthquake slip. These experiments led to a new friction law that fits fault behavior during high-velocity/long-displacement slip. Our numerical simulations of dynamic rupture along a planar fault that obeys this friction law reproduced a range of earthquake source features including slip-pulse, Yoffe function, Gaussian velocity, and spontaneous slip arrest. Finally, we demonstrate that this experimentally-based friction law can realistically simulate the propagation and arrest of natural earthquakes. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The accuracy of the millimetre-scale measurements made so far by the SAR systems, as well as the multi-temporal analysis methodologies, have provided impressive images of surface displacements in areas affected by strong earthquakes, and contributed to constrain the geometric and kinematic features of earthquake generating faults. The multi-temporal analysis of InSAR data is also being acknowledged as promising for the search of earthquake precursors. We have applied the multi-temporal PS-InSAR technique to the detection of pre- to post-seismic ground displacements in the region struck by the normal faulting 2009 L' Aquila earthquake. We have used ERS and ENVISAT PS-data sets from both ascending and descending orbits, covering a 20-year long time span. On the yearly-scale, we have identified a pre-seismic displacement pattern, which consists of opposite vertical motions that have affected the blocks in the hanging wall and footwall of the structure that is recognised as the surface trace of the earthquake-generating fault. In particular, we have highlighted a pre-seismic uplift for 4-5 years followed by subsidence (starting 6-8 months prior to the earthquake) of the hanging wall block, coeval to opposite vertical motions of the footwall block. We suggest that such a displacement pattern may represent an earthquake precursor signal.
Earthquake size-frequency distributions commonly follow a power law, with the b value often used to quantify the relative proportion of small and large events. Laboratory experiments have found that the b value of microfractures decreases with increasing stress. Studies have inferred that this relationship also holds for earthquakes based on observations of earthquake b values varying systematically with faulting style, depth, and for subduction zone earthquakes, plate age. However, these studies are limited by small sample sizes despite aggregating events over large regions, which precludes the ability to control for other variables that might also affect earthquake b values such as rock heterogeneity and fault roughness. Our natural experiment in a unique seafloor laboratory on Axial Seamount involves analyzing the size-frequency distribution of similar to 60,000 microearthquakes which delineate a ring-fault system in a 25 km(3 )block of crust that experiences periodic tidal loading of +/- 20 kPa. We find that above a threshold stress amplitude, b value is inversely correlated with tidal stress. The earthquake b value varies by similar to 0.09 per kPa change in Coulomb stress. Our results support the potential use of b values to estimate small stress variations in the Earth's crust. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Based on a large number of literatures and reports, this paper takes communication systems in lifeline engineering as an example, collects as many disaster-related communication data as possible to form a training data set, and analyzes the relationship between disaster-related telecommunications data and earthquake intensity. Then, use visual means to preprocess the collected data set. This paper uses different classification algorithms in machine learning, such as Naive Bayes, K-nearest neighbors, logistic regression and support vector machines for classification training of the formed data set. Optimize it, and finally it proposes a reference model that can be used to predict earthquake intensity. Finally, experiments show that the model has good accuracy.
The objective of this paper is to analyze the temporal clustering of large global earthquakes with respect to natural time, or interevent count, as opposed to regular clock time. To do this, we use two techniques: (1) nowcasting, a new method of statistically classifying seismicity and seismic risk, and (2) time series analysis of interevent counts. We chose the sequences of and earthquakes from the global centroid moment tensor (CMT) catalog from 2004 to 2016 for analysis. A significant number of these earthquakes will be aftershocks of the largest events, but no satisfactory method of declustering the aftershocks in clock time is available. A major advantage of using natural time is that it eliminates the need for declustering aftershocks. The event count we utilize is the number of small earthquakes that occur between large earthquakes. The small earthquake magnitude is chosen to be as small as possible, such that the catalog is still complete based on the Gutenberg-Richter statistics. For the CMT catalog, starting in 2004, we found the completeness magnitude to be . For the nowcasting method, the cumulative probability distribution of these interevent counts is obtained. We quantify the distribution using the exponent, , of the best fitting Weibull distribution; for a random (exponential) distribution. We considered 197 earthquakes with and found . We considered 15 earthquakes with but this number was considered too small to generate a meaningful distribution. For comparison, we generated synthetic catalogs of earthquakes that occur randomly with the Gutenberg-Richter frequency-magnitude statistics. We considered a synthetic catalog of earthquakes and found . The random catalog converted to natural time was also random. We then generated synthetic catalogs with 197 in each catalog and found the statistical range of values. The observed value of for the CMT catalog corresponds to a p value of leading us to conclude that the interevent natural times in the CMT catalog are not random. For the time series analysis, we calculated the autocorrelation function for the sequence of natural time intervals between large global earthquakes and again compared with data from synthetic catalogs of random data. In this case, the spread of autocorrelation values was much larger, so we concluded that this approach is insensitive to deviations from random behavior.
In central California, periodic earthquake occurrence suggests a relationship with annual hydrological, atmospheric, thermal, and tidal loadings. In catalogs of declustered earthquakes within 100 km from Parkfield, CA, we study a semiannual periodicity for the monthly number of <= 7.2-km-deep earthquakes and the monthly median hypocenter depth over 1994-2002 and 2006-2014. Peak-trough months in fitted periodic components differ between time spans and event populations. Deeper earthquakes present no semiannual and a weak annual periodicity. Although modeled pore pressure shows a Spring peak, when added to the elastic Coulomb stress from surface hydrospheric loads, it fails to predict a 6-month periodicity for 2006-2014. In 1994-2002, the pore-pressure amplitude appears to be of same order as the elastic stress and may have had a stronger effect. In 2006-2014, we did not find load model parameters explaining the observed pattern or apparent changes following the 2003 San Simeon and 2004 Parkfield earthquakes.
In this study, the relationships between possible ionospheric total electron content (TEC) anomalies and earthquake focal depths and fault types were investigated using 3,099 global earthquakes with Mw >= 6.0 between 2000 and 2020. The relationship between the ionospheric TEC changes and earthquakes has been previously discussed in the literature. However, very few studies have examined the relationship between the focal depths and the fault types of these earthquakes. In general, three indices, namely the disturbance storm-time index (Dst), the planetary geomagnetic activity index (Kp), and the solar flux (F10.7), are used to characterize the space weather conditions (SWC) that affect TEC anomalies and to identify the active/quiet days for future earthquakes. In this study, 13 different indices were used: indices that measured solar activity included proton flux (Pf) at six different energy levels, F10.7, and extreme ultraviolet (EUV0.1-50 nm and EUV26-34 nm). Meanwhile, geomagnetic storm indices included Dst, Kp, the z-component of the magnetic field index (Bz), and proton density (P-d). By using the ionospheric TEC values derived from global ionosphere maps (GIM-TEC), both negative and positive ionospheric TEC anomalies were observed for 15 days before and 4 days after the earthquakes using a statistical analysis technique that involved a 15-day moving median. The earthquakes were grouped according to their fault types (normal, thrust, and strike-slip) and focal depths (shallow, intermediate, and deep). Their relationships with the negative and positive TEC anomalies in the quiet days before the earthquake were examined. Negative and positive anomalies were observed approximately 3-12 days before earthquakes that occurred on normal faults, approximately 5-8 days before earthquakes that occurred on thrust faults, and approximately 1-12 days before earthquakes that occurred on strike-slip faults. The average TEC anomaly changes were calculated to be 43.4% total electron content unit (TECU) for normal faults, 44.8% TECU for thrust faults, and 41.3% TECU for strike-slip faults. Positive anomaly values were exhibited by larger earthquakes on normal and thrust faults, whereas negative anomaly values tended to occur on strike-slip faults. Negative and positive TEC anomalies were detected around 3-12 days before shallow earthquakes, around 1-13 days before intermediate-depth earthquakes, and around 1-12 days before deep earthquakes. The average TEC anomaly changes were calculated to be 44.4% TECU for shallow earthquakes, 43.3% TECU for intermediate-depth earthquakes, and 42.6% TECU for deep earthquakes. Positive anomaly values were also found to be higher than the negative anomaly values in each group. We propose that there is a relationship between the ionospheric TEC anomalies that occur before large earthquakes and their fault types and focal depths. (C) 2022 American Society of Civil Engineers.
While many approaches for assessing earthquake risk exist within the literature and practice, it is the dynamic interrelationships between earthquake hazard, physical risk, and the social conditions of populations that are the focal point for disaster risk reduction. Here, the measurement of vulnerability to earthquakes (i.e., characteristics that create the potential for harm or loss) has become a major focus area. However, metrics aimed at measuring vulnerability to earthquakes suffer from several key limitations. For instance, hazard and community context are often ignored, and attempts to validate metrics are largely non-existent. The purpose of this paper is to produce composite indices of the vulnerability of countries to earthquakes within three topical areas: social vulnerability, economic vulnerability, and recovery potential. To improve upon the status quo in indicators development for measuring vulnerability to seismic events, our starting point was to: (1) define a set of indicators that are context specific to earthquakes as defined by the literature; (2) delineate indicators within categorical areas of vulnerability that are easy to understand and could be put into practical use by DRR practitioners; and (3) propose indicators that are validated using historical earthquake impacts. When mapped, the geographic variations in the differential susceptibility of populations and economies to the adverse effects of damaging earthquake impacts become evident, as does differential ability of countries to recover from them. Drivers of this geographic variation include average country debt, the type and density of infrastructure, poverty, governance, and educational attainment, to name just a few.
Earthquakes can generate thermal anomalies in the atmosphere at low altitudes. Pending well-focused detailed studies, such phenomenon may be referred to as a precursor for earthquake prediction. However, today the pre-earthquake thermal anomalies are not clear enough. In this paper, the thermal anomalies prior to the April 25, 2015 Mw 7.8 Gorkha (Nepal) earthquake are investigated from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) land surface temperature (LST), air temperature and Outgoing Longwave Radiations (OLR) data. The 2D and 3D wavelet transformation techniques are used to interpret the real time enhancement of the daily MODIS and OLR data before the impending earthquake. Using the wavelet density spectrum, pre-earthquake anomalies in MODIS and OLR are found in connection to the impending earthquake. The spatial images of MODIS and OLR show the evolutionary pattern of the emanation of ions from the epicenter and the surrounding area. The most important feature revealed by the spatial analysis is the eastward migration of temperature clouds due to a strong electric field. The satellite based LST data showed deviation, which crosses the upper bound by 5 degrees C. All the observations in our case study strongly support the notion of pre-earthquake thermal anomalies. Based on the analysis of the results, it can be concluded that the overabundance of ions from the seismogenic zone is responsible for prompting large temperature perturbations in atmospheric layers.
In earthquake fault systems, active faults release elastic strain energy in a near-repetitive manner. Earthquake forecasting that basically refers to the assessment of earthquake hazards via probability estimates is crucial for many strategic and engineering planning. As the current need across sciences dominantly grows for conceptualization, abstraction, and application, comparison of lifetime probability distributions or understanding their physical significance becomes a fundamental concern in statistical seismology. Using various characteristic measures derived from density function, hazard rate function, and mean residual life function with its asymptotic (limiting) behavior, the present study examines the similitude of the two most versatile inverse Gaussian and lognormal distributions in earthquake forecasting. We consider three homogeneous and complete seismic catalogs from northeast India, northwest Himalaya, and Kachchh (western India) region for illustration. We employ maximum likelihood and moment methods for parameter estimation, and Fisher information for uncertainty valuation. Using three performance tests based on Akaike information criterion, Kolmogorov-Smirnov criterion, and Anderson-Darling test, we show that the heavy-tailed lognormal distribution performs relatively better in terms of its model fit to the observed data. We envisage that the ubiquitous heavy-tailed property of lognormal distribution helps in capturing desired characteristics of seismicity dynamics, providing better insights to the long-term earthquake forecasting in a seismically active region.
This paper reviews laboratory observations of earthquake initiation and describes new experiments on a 3-m rock sample where the nucleation process is imaged in detail. Many of the laboratory observations are consistent with previous work that showed a slow and smoothly accelerating earthquake nucleation process that expands to a critical nucleation length scale L-c, before it rapidly accelerates to dynamic fault rupture. The experiments also highlight complexities not currently considered by most theoretical and numerical models. This includes a loading rate dependency where a kick above steady state produces smaller and more abrupt initiation. Heterogeneity of fault strength also causes abrupt initiation when creep fronts coalesce on a stuck patch that is somewhat stronger than the surrounding fault. Taken together, these two mechanisms suggest a rate-dependent cascade up model for earthquake initiation. This model simultaneously accounts for foreshocks that are a by-product of a larger nucleation process and similarities between initial P wave signatures of small and large earthquakes. A diversity of nucleation conditions are expected in the Earth's crust, ranging from slip limited environments with L-c < 1 m, to ignition-limited environments with L-c > 10 km. In the latter case, L-c fails to fully characterize the initiation process since earthquakes nucleate not because a slipping patch reaches a critical length but because fault slip rate exceeds a critical power density needed to ignite dynamic rupture.
This study examined the severity of post-traumatic stress and depressive disorders in Longmenshan adolescents after the 2013 Lushan earthquake, as well as relationships among earthquake-related exposure, post-earthquake negative factors, previous exposure to the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake, and level of earthquake impact (city). A cross-sectional survey was conducted among adolescents in Lushan (n=1416), Baoxing (n=1102) and Tianquan (n=1265) at 3years after the Lushan earthquake. Respondents were evaluated using the Earthquake Experience Scale, the Adolescent Self-rating Life Events Checklist (ASLEC), the Children's Revised Impact of Event Scale (CRIES-13), and the Depression Self-Rating Scale (KADS-6). High levels of post-traumatic stress and depression symptoms were found among adolescents in the most heavily affected cities, and these symptoms were more severe in respondents exposed to the 2008 earthquake. PTSD correlated most strongly with earthquake exposure, whereas depression correlated most strongly with psychosocial stressors following the event.
Building seismic performance plays an important role in earthquake resilience. This role can be characterized beyond safety and collapse prevention, which are the primary building code objectives, by evaluating the loss of function and costs of repair of buildings. One important measure for building performance evaluation is the damage that occurs when structural and nonstructural elements are deformed beyond their capacity during an earthquake. Through a risk-based performance evaluation procedure, the expected impact of changes in stiffness, strength, and deformation capacity on building damage can be quantified and the results can be utilized to make targeted improvements to building codes to enhance earthquake resilience. In this paper, models of 4, 7, 10, and 15-story reinforced concrete special moment frame structures designed for San Francisco are subjected to suites of earthquake ground motion records to evaluate deformation response for a range of earthquake intensities. From these analyses the statistics of demand are estimated and used, along with models of capacity and seismic hazard, to evaluate the expected repair costs and loss of function over the life of each building. Performing this analysis for a range of values for each design variable will demonstrate the influence of stiffness, strength, and deformation capacity on building seismic performance, which can be used for evaluating and enhancing community resilience.
The 2017 July 20 Bodrum-Kos earthquake (Mw 6.6) is the largest instrumentally recorded earthquake in the Gokova graben, one of the primary physiographic features of SW Turkey. Using seismology and satellite geodesy, we investigate its source characteristics, aftershock distribution, relationship with earlier instrumental seismicity, and association with known surface faulting. We show that the earthquake ruptured a planar (non-listric) normal fault that dips gently (similar to 37.) northwards beneath the northern Gulf of Gokova coastline, initiating at a depth of similar to 11 km and rupturing upwards and bilaterally. Aftershocks concentrate around (but not necessarily on) the western, eastern and downdip edges of the similar to 25 km-long rupture plane, and have maximum focal depths of similar to 15 km. The main shock surface trace bounds a bathymetric ridge east of Kos island, and may be one of the several faults imaged previously in this area using seismic profiling and multibeam sonar. The fault thus lies within the hangingwall of the lower-angle (similar to 20. N-dipping) South Datc a fault, which it presumably cross-cuts at depth. Through calibrated relocations, we confirmthat sequences of moderate (Mw 5-5.5) earthquakes in 1989, 2004 and 2005 occurred in the eastern and central Gulf of Gokova, many of them likely within the hangingwall of the S-dipping Gokova fault. Overall, our results indicate a switch from dominant S-dipping normal faulting in the eastern graben to dominant N-dipping faulting in the west, but we find no support for a proposed NE-SW-trending left-lateral fault in the central Gulf; most colocated focal mechanisms involve similar to E-W normal faulting. Finally, the Bodrum-Kos main shock adds to growing set of examples from across the Aegean region of large normal faulting earthquakes that cut the seismogenic layer as simple planar structures.
The purpose of this paper is to present the most comprehensive catalogue of focal mechanisms for Romanian earthquakes which occurred between 1929 and 2000 in the Carpathian Orogen, the Moesian and Moldavian Platforms, and the Transylvanian Basin. The present catalogue (REFMC) is a first step toward creating a centralized and continuous database of earthquake mechanisms in Romania by revising and updating existing data for the twentieth century, which together with the Romanian earthquake catalogue (ROMPLUS)-continuously updated by the National Institute for Earth Physics, provides the fundamental information for any seismicity or seismic hazard assessment. In order to produce a close-to definitive version compatible with more recent and less uncertain focal mechanisms solutions, we revised multiple sets of data (some of which newly found), recalculated and corrected some of the fault-plane solutions and reached a consensus. The catalogue comprises 250 crustal events and 416 intermediate-depth events recorded in the twentieth century starting from 1929. On the basis of the new catalogue data and seismotectonic investigation, we propose a reconfiguration of the seismogenic zones located along Southern Carpathians toward the western side of Romania.
This article develops global models of damping scaling factors (DSFs) for subduction zone earthquakes that are functions of the damping ratio, spectral period, earthquake magnitude, and distance. The Next Generation Attenuation for subduction earthquakes (NGA-Sub) project has developed the largest uniformly processed database of recorded ground motions to date from seven subduction regions: Alaska, Cascadia, Central America and Mexico, South America, Japan, Taiwan, and New Zealand. NGA-Sub used this database to develop new ground motion models (GMMs) at a reference 5% damping ratio. We worked with the NGA-Sub project team to develop an extended database that includes pseudo-spectral accelerations (PSA) for 11 damping ratios between 0.5% and 30%. We use this database to develop parametric models of DSF for both interface and intraslab subduction earthquakes that can be used to adjust any subduction GMM from a reference 5% damping ratio to other damping ratios. The DSF is strongly influenced by the response spectral shape and the duration of motion; therefore, in addition to the damping ratio, the median DSF model uses spectral period, magnitude, and distance as surrogate predictor variables to capture the effects of the spectral shape and the duration of motion. We also develop parametric models for the standard deviation of DSF. The models presented in this article are for the RotD50 horizontal component of PSA and are compared with the models for shallow crustal earthquakes in active tectonic regions. Some noticeable differences arise from the considerably longer duration of interface records for very large magnitude events and the enriched high-frequency content of intraslab records, compared with shallow crustal earthquakes. Regional differences are discussed by comparing the proposed global models with the data from each subduction region along with recommendations on the applicability of the models.
Current seismic design requirements were established considering mainly (almost exclusively) ground motions caused by shallow crustal earthquakes, hence they might lead to different-from-intended risk levels when applied at locations prone to large-magnitude subduction (i.e. megathrust) earthquakes. In this study, the seismic behavior of 40 modern steel special moment frames (SSMFs) subjected to both megathrust and crustal ground motions is evaluated. Three analyses are performed: (1) a hazard-consistent analysis; (2) a comparative collapse risk evaluation; and (3) a performance evaluation following the approach indicated in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) P695. Results indicate that the collapse probability of mid- and high-rise SSMFs subjected to megathrust ground motions is indeed larger than that under crustal ground motions. Modifications to the current design criteria are then suggested, intended not only for United States but also for countries, such as Ecuador, where the US seismic design requirements for steel structures were adopted and seismic ground motions are actually caused by megathrust earthquakes.
We revisited the June 2010 to October 2011 Guy-Greenbrier earthquake sequence in central Arkansas using PhaseNet, a deep neural network trained to pick P and S arrival times. We applied PhaseNet to continuous waveform data and used phase association and hypocenter relocation to locate nearly 90,000 events. Our catalog suggests that the sequence consists of two adjacent earthquake sequences on the same fault and that the second sequence may be associated with the wastewater disposal well to the west of the Guy-Greenbrier Fault, rather than the wells to the north and the east that were previously implicated. We find that each sequence is composed of many small clusters that exhibit diffusion along the fault at shorter timescales. Our study demonstrates that machine-learning-based earthquake catalog development is now feasible and will yield new insights into earthquake behavior. Plain Language Summary Finding small earthquake signals from long duration continuous seismic data is a time-consuming task, but machine learning algorithms have the potential to accelerate the workflow and improve the results. We reprocessed the seismic data from the area spanning Guy and Greenbrier in central Arkansas in 2010 and 2011 using a machine learning algorithm to reexamine this well-studied earthquake sequence, which is thought to be caused by injection of wastewater from unconventional hydrocarbon production into deep disposal wells. Even using conservative postprocessing steps, we were able to locate nearly 90,000 earthquake events. The improved catalog illuminates previously unseen aspects of this earthquake sequence that give new insights into its behavior.
The majority of Turkey?s geography is at risk of earthquakes. Within the borders of Turkey, including the two major active faults contain the North-Eastern and Eastern Anatolia, earthquake, threatening the safety of life and property. On January 24, 2020, an earthquake of magnitude 6.8 occurred at 8:55 p.m. local time. According to the data obtained from the stations in the region, peak ground acceleration in the east-west direction was measured as 0.292 g from the 2308 coded station in Sivrice. It is thought that the earthquake with a magnitude of Mw 6.8 was developed on the Sivrice-Puturge segment of the Eastern Anatolian Fault, which is a left lateral strike slip fault, and the tear developed in an area of 50-55 km. Aftershocks ranging from 0.8 to 5.1 Mw occurred following the main shock on the Eastern Anatolian Fault. The earthquake caused severe structural damages in Elazi? and neighboring provinces. As a result of the field investigations carried out in this study, significant damage levels were observed in the buildings since it did not meet the criteria in the earthquake codes. Within the study's scope, the structural damage cases in reinforced concrete and masonry structures were investigated. Many structural deficiencies and mistakes such as non-ductile details, poor concrete quality, short columns, strong beams?weak columns mechanism, large and heavy overhangs, masonry building damages and inadequate reinforcement arrangements were observed. Requirements of seismic codes are discussed and compared with observed earthquake damage.
Background: On August 8, 2017, a 7-magtitude earthquake struck Jiuzhaigou County in Sichuan, China. This was the third devastating earthquake in that province. The prevalence and predictors of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, and comorbid PTSD/depression among adolescents were unclear after the Jiuzhaigou earthquake. Methods: Participants were 1241 adolescent survivors in Jiuzhaigou. Data were collected using the PTSD Checklist for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition, and the Chinese version of the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale for Children. Results: In total, 46.3% of participants reported PTSD, 64.5% reported depression, and 39.2% reported comorbid PTSD/depression symptoms. Risk factors for symptoms of these disorders were being female, having been injured or trapped, and intrusive rumination. High school students were less likely to report PTSD and comorbid PTSD/depression than middle school students. Participants with family members/friends that were injured or trapped reported more PTSD and comorbid symptoms than those without this experience. Loss of property also predicted PTSD. However, deliberate rumination was a protective factor for depression. Limitations: This study did not cover all adolescents in Jiuzhaigou and all potential predictors. As we used a cross-sectional design, this study could not assess the trajectory of PTSD, depression, and comorbid symptoms after the earthquake. Conclusion: The findings are meaningful for mental health care among adolescents after natural disasters such as an earthquake.
Late at night on 17 June 2019, a magnitude 6.0 earthquake struck Shuanghe Town and its surrounding area in Changning County, Sichuan, China, becoming the largest earthquake recorded within the southern Sichuan Basin. A series of earthquakes with magnitudes up to 5.6 occurred during a short period after the mainshock, and we thus refer to these earthquakes as the Changning M6 earthquake sequence (or swarm). The mainshock was located very close to a salt mine, into which for similar to 3 decades fresh water had been extensively injected through several wells at a depth of 2.7-3 km. It was also near (within similar to 15 km) the epicenter of the 18 December 2018 M5.7 Xingwen earthquake, which is thought to have been induced by shale gas hydraulic fracturing (HF), prompting questions about the possible involvement of industrial activities in the M6 sequence. Following previous studies, this paper focuses on the relationship between injection and seismicity in the Shuanghe salt field and its adjacent Shangluo shale gas block. Except for a period of serious water loss after the start of cross-well injection in 2005-2006, the frequency of earthquakes shows a slightly increasing tendency. Overall, there is a good correlation between the event rate in the Shuanghe area and the loss of injected water. More than 400 M >= 3 earthquakes, including 40 M >= 4 and 5 M >= 5 events, had been observed by the end of August 2019. Meanwhile, in the Shangluo area, seismicity has increased during drilling and HF operations (mostly in vertical wells) since about 2009, and dramatically since the end of 2014, coincident with the start of systematic HF in the area. The event rate shows a progressively increasing background with some fluctuations, paralleling the increase in HF operations. More than 700 M >= 3 earthquakes, including 10 M >= 4 and 3 M >= 5 in spatially and temporally clustered seismic events, are correlated closely with active fracturing platforms. Well-resolved centroid moment tensor results for M >= 4 earthquakes were shown to occur at very shallow depths around shale formations with active HF, in agreement with some of the clusters, which occurred within the coverage area of temporary or new permanent monitoring stations and thus have been precisely located. After the Xingwen M5.7 earthquake, seismic activity in the salt well area increased significantly. The Xingwen earthquake may have created a unidirectional rupture to the NNW, with an end point close to the NW-trending fault of the Shuanghe earthquake. Thus, a fault in the Changning anticline might have terminated the fault rupture of the Xingwen earthquake, possibly giving the Xingwen earthquake a role in promoting the Changning M6 event.
The principal objective of this research is to analyze the impact of the earthquake of September 05, 2012 on a set of sixteen Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) stations located in Costa Rica. This is an explanatory investigation based on the calculation of weekly free solutions, which were later combined to obtain a final solution which was in turn used to generate time series that show variations in the position of the stations. It was observed that GNSS stations located at a maximum distance of 140 km from the epicenter of the earthquake experienced changes in both their position and in the magnitude of their speed, with the stations located in the Peninsula de Nicoya being the most affected. It is concluded that the event studied produced significant changes in the position of thirteen of the analyzed stations, while three stations were not affected by the earthquake.
Tectonic research of the Tibetan Plateau has long focused on its deformation style and mechanisms. The 2008 Mw7.9 Wenchuan earthquake ruptured the Longmen Shan fault located at the eastern rim of the plateau and excited a viscoelastic response of the lithosphere. We infer a three-dimensional (3D) rheological structure of eastern Tibet from modeling nine years of postseismic displacements observed by GPS. Our solution provides tight constraints on the lower-crustal and upper-mantle steady-state viscosities of the Songpan-Ganzi Terrane as (5.0 +/- 0.7) x 10(18) and (1.3 +/- 0.3) x 10(19) Pa s, respectively, consistent with a jelly sandwich model of Tibet, but not with some crustal channel flow models featuring much lower viscosities. The inferred lower-crustal and upper-mantle transient viscosities are (5.0 +/- 1.3) x 10(17) and (5.0 +/- 1.5) x 10(18) Pa s, respectively, suggesting nonlinear deformation mechanisms. The adjacent West Qinling and Sichuan blocks feature an order-of-magnitude higher rheological strength, which is consistent with the changes in the crustal material properties and interseismic deformation style across the East Kunlun-Tazang and Longmen Shan faults. Our results enable us to propose a conceptual 3D tectonic deformation model, in which the eastward extrusion of Tibet is absorbed in the Songpan-Ganzi crust mainly by E-W shortening and N-S extension, accommodated through faulting of conjugate strike-slip faults in the upper crust and distributed shear in the lower crust.
The 2021 Maduo earthquake ruptured a 150 km-long left-lateral fault in the northeast Tibet. We used Synthetic Aperture Radar data collected by the Sentinel-1A/B satellites within days of the earthquake to derive a finite fault model and investigate the details of slip distribution with depth. We generated coseismic interferograms and pixel offsets from different look directions corresponding to the ascending and descending satellite orbits. At the eastern end the rupture bifurcated into two sub-parallel strands, with larger slip on the northern strand. Inversions of coseismic displacements show maximum slip to the east of the epicenter. The averaged coseismic slip has a peak at depth of 3-4 km, similar to slip distributions of a number of shallow strike-slip earthquakes. Postseismic observations over several weeks following the Maduo earthquake reveal surface slip with amplitude up to 0.1 m that at least partially eliminated the coseismic slip deficit in the uppermost crust.
Objective To evaluate stress effect of COVID-19 pandemic and Zagreb earthquakes on symptoms of temporomandibular disorders (TMD). Materials and Methods One hundred and two previously diagnosed TMD patients were contacted by email to participate in an online survey about impact of those events on current and/or new symptoms, perceived stress, anxiety and symptom intensity in time-points at the baseline, following pandemic and following earthquake. We compared data between earthquake-affected and non-affected respondents. Results Response rate was 79.4%. Effects stress had on deterioration of symptoms were significantly different between earthquake-affected and non-affected (p = .024). In earthquake-affected, numerical pain rating scale (NPRS) scores significantly increased between baseline and after COVID-19 (p > .001) and between baseline and after earthquakes (p > .05). However, scores insignificantly dropped from COVID-19 to after earthquakes time-points. In earthquake-affected, positive correlation was found between impact of COVID-19 on stress and NPRS (p < .001) and between earthquakes' impact on stress and NPRS (p < .001). Earthquake-affected respondents reported significantly more new behavioral habits when compared to non-affected (p = .048). Conclusions A series of stressful events do not necessarily have a cumulative effect, but are likely to have a complex interaction (e.g., acute stress might trigger the protective mechanisms), which could have decreased pain scores after the earthquakes.
The paper presents the results of a cross-sectional study regarding participants' perception on the SASMEX system performance following the two earthquakes that hit Mexico City on 7 and 19 September in 2017. The approach has been the application of questionnaires to a sample size of n = 2400. The survey was conducted from 4 October-20 November 2017. The questions included in the questionnaire were based on the criteria of the effectiveness of early warning systems proposed by the United Nations-International Strategy for Disaster Reduction (UN-ISDR). Some of the key conclusions were the following: {a}. Deficiencies have been highlighted in relation to 'risk knowledge', 'monitoring and warning', 'dissemination & communication', and 'response capability' of the system; {b}. The results have highlighted the need to issue the warning time to the residents of the city (i.e., the time between the moment the siren sounds and the actual ground shaking); knowing the warning time may be of great value to people during the seismic emergency, at least for the case of Mexico City, however, this may require further research; {c}. More generally, the SASMEX and any earthquake early warning (EEW) system should be people-centred.
The psychological impact of relocation within and outside of a disaster region was examined in 541 survivors of the 2011 Van earthquake in Turkey at 16.5 months postdisaster. Relocation out of the region was determined by disaster-related property/financial losses and fear during the earthquake. Anticipatory fear of future earthquakes and less sense of control over life were the strongest predictors of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression symptoms. Relocation within the disaster region predicted PTSD but not depression. Dissatisfaction with emotional support received from close ones was significantly associated with depression, but it was associated with PTSD at a marginally significant level. Survivors who experienced more intense fear during the earthquake displayed higher levels of anticipatory fear in the long term, whereas avoidance of trauma reminders and fear-evoking situations sustained anticipatory fear of future earthquakes. These findings suggest that interventions that reduce fear and avoidance behaviors would help survivors overcome traumatic stress and depressive symptoms.
This paper proposes a Convolutional Recurrent Neural Net (CRNN) structure that can simultaneously reflect both static and dynamic characteristics of seismic waveforms for various earthquake events classification. Addressing various earthquake events, including not only micro-earthquakes and artificial-earthquakes but also macro-earthquakes, requires both effective feature extraction and a classifier that can discriminate seismic waveform under noisy environment. First, we extract the static characteristics of seismic waveform through an attention-based convolution layer. Then, the extracted feature-map is sequentially injected as input to a multi-input single-output Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network structure to extract the dynamic characteristic for various seismic event classifications. Subsequently, we perform earthquake events classification through two fully connected layers and softmax function. Representative experimental results using domestic and foreign earthquake database show that the proposed model provides an effective structure for various earthquake events classification.
We present detailed 3-D tomographic images of P and S wave velocity (Vp, Vs), Poisson's ratio (nu) and Vp azimuthal anisotropy of the crust and uppermost mantle beneath the source area of the 21 May 2021 Maduo earthquake (M 7.4) in the NE Tibetan plateau. The images are obtained by inverting a large number of P and S wave arrival-time data of 11,235 local earthquakes and Maduo aftershocks recorded at 67 seismic stations. Our results show that the 2021 Maduo mainshock occurred in a low-Vs and high-nu anomaly, probably reflecting crustal fluids that affected the rupture nucleation. Our Vp anisotropy results show that at 40 km depth under the southern part of the study region, the fast-velocity direction (FVD) is NW-SE, which is mainly controlled by the India-Eurasia collision. At 60 km depth under the study region and at 40 km depth under the northern part of the region, the FVDs are NE-SW to N-S, reflecting lower crustal flow. The FVDs are roughly E-W at 60 km depth beneath the Qilian mountain range, which reflect the lower crustal flow that is blocked by a rigid terrane in the north. The lower crustal flow may lead to intra-crustal and crust-mantle decoupling and affect seismotectonics in NE Tibet.
Purpose - Reconstruction processes after an earthquake require estimating repair costs to decide on whether to repair or rebuild. This requires an accurate post-earthquake cost estimation tool. Currently, there are no post-earthquake loss estimation models to estimate repair costs accurately. There are loss assessment tools available, namely, HAZUS, performance assessment calculation tool (PACT), seismic performance and loss assessment tool (SLAT) and seismic performance prediction tool, which have not been specifically used for post-earthquake repair cost estimation. This paper aims to focus on identifying factors that need to be considered when upgrading these tools for post-earthquake repair cost estimation. Design/methodology/approach - The research was conducted as an exploratory study using a literature review, document analysis of the PACT, SLAT and HAZUS software and 18 semi-structured interviews. Findings - The research identified information sources available for estimation and factors to be considered when developing estimations based on the information sources. Research limitations/implications - The data was collected from professionals who were involved mostly in housing repair work in New Zealand. Therefore, impact of these repair work factors might vary in other forms of structures such as civil structures include bridges and the country as a result of varying construction details and standards. Practical implications - The identified factors will be used to improve the loss estimation tools are such as PACT and HAZUS, as well as to develop a post-earthquake repair cost estimation tool. Originality/value - Currently, the identified factors impacting post-earthquake damage repair cost estimations are not considered in loss estimation tools. Factors identified in this research will help to develop a more accurate cost estimation tool for post-earthquake repair work.
Manifestations of emergent properties in stressed disordered materials are often the result of an interplay between strong perturbations in the stress field around defects. The collective response of a long-ranged correlated multi-component system is an ideal playing field for statistical physics. Hence, many aspects of such collective responses in widely spread length and energy scales can be addressed by the tools of statistical physics. In this theme issue, some of these aspects are treated from various angles of experiments, simulations and analytical methods, and connected together by their common base of complex-system dynamics. This article is part of the theme issue 'Statistical physics of fracture and earthquakes'
The 2001 Mw7.8 Kokoxili earthquake, which occurred in the north Tibetan Plateau, ruptured similar to 400 km of the westernmost portion of the Kunlun fault and produced significant time-dependent postseismic deformation over a large area around the rupture zone and nearby regions. To analyze the postseismic deformation features along different sections of the coseismic surface rupture, we describe the total cumulative postseismic deformation near the center of the rupture and produce velocity maps for the whole observation period and six sub-periods, using InSAR observations (ENVISAT/ASAR, 2003-2010) on five descending tracks. The results indicate that the postseismic deformation is asymmetrically distributed across the fault over a very broad area of similar to 300 km x 500 km. The south side of the fault exhibits larger displacements and a wider area of deformation that is steadily decaying from near-field to far-field, while the north side displays a narrow, rapidly diminishing deformation field. The maximum cumulative displacement in 2003-2010 reaches up to similar to 45-60 mm and the LOS peak-to-trough average velocity offset in 2003-2010 reaches similar to 13-16 mm/yr at similar to 92.5 degrees E. The short-term postseismic velocity estimates in the six sub-periods reflect significant spatial variation and temporal differences on different sections. Motions to the south of the two ends of the rupture zone show more rapid velocity decay compared to near the main central rupture zone. The time- and distance-dependent timeseries of postseismic surface displacement reveal exponential decay in the near-field and a nearly linear trend in the far-field of the fault.
The detection of earthquake signals is a fundamental yet challenging task in observational seismology. A robust automatic earthquake detection algorithm is strongly demanded in view of the ever-growing global seismic dataset. Here, we develop an automatic earthquake detection framework based on a deep learning approach (SCALODEEP). It extracts high-order features embedded in three-component seismograms by encoding a time-frequency representation of the data (scalogram) into a deep network with skip connections. The SCALODEEP is trained and validated on an open-source dataset from North California, and then employed to seismicity detection in four areas, including Arkansas, Japan, Texas, and Egypt. Despite vastly varying characteristics of regional earthquakes (e.g., focal mechanism, duration, and noise level), SCALODEEP successfully detects seismic signals over a broad range of local magnitudes (as low as -1.3ML) and outperforms conventional algorithms such as STA/LTA, FAST, and template matching. Compared to recently proposed deep learning based frameworks (e.g., CRED and Earthquake transformer), SCALODEEP achieves a superior generalization ability via a sophisticated network architecture. In summary, our study offers a promising new tool to improve existing earthquake detection systems and, as importantly, sheds light on designing an effective deep learning network for generalized earthquake detection. Plain Language Summary An efficient and reliable earthquake detection based on deep learning is of great interest to a broad scope of geoscience community. One question that has been constantly raised by seismic practitioners is whether/how we can generalize the trained network to be widely applicable. We introduce a new deep learning method for generalized earthquake detection. Our network includes a very deep architecture with 24,629,053 parameters, and its generalization ability is further augmented by implementations of time-frequency representation of seismic data and skip connections. We compare the performance of the new framework with the state-of-the-art FAST, template matching, and CRED methods, and demonstrate its advantages. To demonstrate the potential in practical usage, we train the network using a community dataset from North California, and test its generalization ability on four independent regional datasets from Arkansas, Japan, Texas, and Egypt.
We present the results of the numerical simulation of the May 29, 2012 Emilia Romagna earthquake in Northern Italy using an approach that computes synthetic seismograms associated to earthquake scenarios by combining broadband synthetic seismograms (0-10 Hz) obtained using the UCSB broadband code with nonlinear ground response analyses carried out using the program NOAH. The comparison with the recorded waveforms allowed validating the predictive capability of the adopted method in the proximity of the epicenter. The main limitation of the study is the inappropriateness of 1D modeling in a region characterized by a steep variation of the roof of the buried bedrock.
Taiwan Strait is located between the actively deforming Taiwan Island and stable South China Craton. While strong earthquakes have occurred on the east and west sides of the Taiwan Strait and their seismotectonic are relatively well understood, the earthquake risk and seismogenic structure in the strait still need more investigations. On November 25, 2018, a rare moderately strong earthquake with a magnitude of Mw5.8 occurred inside the strait, and it caused broad ground motions in the near regions. From the waveform inversion of the seismic data, this earthquake is found to be a high-dip angle strike-slip event, with the two nodal planes striking east-west (EW) and north-south (NS) directions. As there are mapped faults striking EW and NS in the epicentral region, further studies are needed to determine the ruptured fault plane. To determine the ruptured fault plane, we analyzed the rupture directivity of the mainshock with the relative location between the hypocenter and the centmid. We chose several M4+ aftershocks as reference events and relocated the reference earthquakes with the Pn travel time difference. Then, we used regional waveform data to invert centmid location and source parameters of earthquakes. Thereafter, we estimated the strike of the mainshock ruptured fault and rupture length, via fitting the azimuthal variation of the Love wave time shift difference between the mainshock and the reference earthquakes. Our results showed that the mainshock ruptured along NS strike with the rupture length about 3.6-5.6 km. Combined with the tectonics, we inferred that the seismogenic fault is the Dongshan uplift eastern fault (DSEF) and the 1994 event may promote the occurrence of the 2018 Mw5.8 earthquake.
The results of instrumental observations of variations in the vertical component of the electric field strength and atmospheric current caused by strong earthquakes are analyzed. It is shown that strong earthquakes cause alternating variations of the electric field, or bay-shaped variations of the positive or negative sign at significant distances from the event center. Earthquakes are accompanied by variations in the atmospheric current in the form of alternating variations.
The social networks represent modern means of conveying information and states. The accurate access to the messages and states in the shortest period of time might be very useful in case this contributes to reducing the risk of producing destructive events. In case of earthquakes, it is highly important to be aware of the people's state in order to rapidly provide help. There are multiple information methods used to identify the sentiment and the human opinion, but the results should be vigilantly managed. The latter are related to the real existing circumstances that might be determined by the environmental factors. The present study aims to identify the people's states when they are posting a short message on Twitter, immediately after a natural event, such as an earthquake. Knowing the opinion of those people who were in a calamity earthquake situation, and also knowing the sentiment analysis, a contribution to the quantification of the reaction regarding these events that they were exposed to might be supplied.
Rapid assessment of earthquake disaster loss is the main method of earthquake emergency response after an earthquake. China has a vast territory, the accuracy and current situation of regional basic data are generally low, and the houses in rural areas are not subject to mandatory seismic fortification requirements, which are the key factors affecting the accuracy of rapid assessment results. The regional field investigation is applied to the process of earthquake disaster loss pre-assessment. Through the investigation of the building structure, personnel mobility and major hazard sources, the accuracy of rapid assessment of casualties will be improved. Taking Xiangning County of Shanxi Province as an example, the method of earthquake disaster loss pre-assessment is studied.
The observation of a transient slip 1month before the rupture of the 2011 Tohoku earthquake is a conandrum since the area was supposedly fully coupled. A better understanding of the mechanisms at work during the preseismic phase is thus fundamental. However, the configuration of the Pacific plate and the location of the Tohoku rupture zone 200km from the coast make it difficult to detect microseismic events. In this study, we use a multidimensional template matching (MDTM) technique to detect earthquakes that are hidden in the noise. The temporal distribution of these 395 newly detected earthquakes provides new insights on the slip history of the megathrust earthquake epicentral zone. The detected events can be separated into two groups: 187 low-frequency detections (below 5Hz) that well recorded the episodes of earthquake migration prior to the Tohoku earthquake and 208 high-frequency detections (above 10Hz) that occurred close to the rupture zones of the M >= 4.8-6 earthquakes that struck between the 9 March 2011 M7.3 foreshock and the 30 November 2010 Tohoku-Oki earthquake. The seismic rate of these high frequency detection events starts to increase on 30 November 2010 until the Tohoku earthquake.
Performance indicators such as energy, stiffness and displacement are the key parameters to evaluate the damage degree of structures or members subjected to earthquake. Establishing accurate and effective damage models based on these parameters is very necessary for performance-based seismic design. The current damage models have some deficiencies in dynamic mechanism, threshold range, accuracy and applicability. According to the mechanism of energy dissipation, it is assumed that the damage of structures and members is closely related to the difference between the ideal elastic-plastic deformation energy and the actual elastic-plastic deformation energy. This differential ratio can be used to represent the damage degree and damage evolution. Based on this, the damage model based on differential ratio of elastic plastic dissipated energy is proposed, and the specific calculation methods under monotonic static load, quasi-static load and dynamic load are given, respectively. Further, the damage index ranges corresponding to different damage grades are determined, and the application ranges and characteristics of different damage models are compared. The applicability and accuracy of damage model based on differential ratio of elastic plastic dissipated energy in members and structures subjected to different load are verified by damage assessment of the shear wall (static load), one 6-story RC frame structure (static load, seismic load) and one 12-story RC frame structure (shaking table test). The analysis results proved the damage model proposed in this paper has the advantages of clear mechanism, strict threshold, widely application range and can characterize the dynamic evolution of damage.
This paper presents an approach for assessing the failure probability of a road system due to its interaction with landslides induced by the earthquake. The landslide occurrence and failure probability of the road system is estimated by considering the spatial variation of earthquake ground motion. Since significant incoherence in earthquake ground motions is usually observed within the spatial dimensions of large horizontally expanded structures like roads, bridges and dams, it is important to consider the uncertainty due to spatially varying ground motion. The stochastic nature of seismic loading is incorporated in the study by generating a series of earthquake ground motions while the spatial variation of ground motion is accounted for by using cross power spectral density function. Two phase material point method (MPM) is used to simulate the dynamic behaviour of saturated slopes. MPM is able to capture the failure mechanism of slopes under seismic loading and evaluates the travel distance of sliding mass.
The Kaikoura Earthquake uplifted Kaikoura Peninsula by <=similar to 1 m. Uplift in 2016 mainly resulted from slip on an offshore thrust fault (OSTF), modelled to splay from the plate-interface, and was further influenced by slip on two newly identified faults (Armers Beach Fault, ABF; Te Taumanu Fault, TTF) mapped onshore from differential lidar (D-lidar). Forward dislocation modelling indicates that 2016 peninsula uplift can be reproduced by mean slip of similar to 2.3 m on the OSTF and 0.25-0.5 m on the ABF and TTF. The variable co-seismic uplift recorded during the 2016 earthquake differs from the near-uniform (1.2 +/- 0.2 degrees) northwest tilting of MIS5c (96 +/- 5 ka) and MIS5e (123 +/- 5 ka) marine terraces; these ages are constrained by Optically Stimulated Luminescence (OSL) dating and correlation to sea-level curves. Tilting of Late Quaternary marine terraces can be primarily reproduced by slip rates of similar to 0.8-2.7 mm/yr on the OSTF and 0.3-0.6 mm/yr on the ABF. Slip on the TTF is not required to produce tilting of the marine terraces, suggesting that it may have ruptured less frequently than the OSTF and ABF in the Late Quaternary. The OSTF links 2016 ruptures north and south of Kaikoura, with the earthquake rupturing an interconnected network of faults.
The 2008 M-w 7.9 Wenchuan earthquake generated similar to 270 and similar to 80 km long surface ruptures along the Longmenshan fault belt, namely the Yingxiu-Beichuan fault (YBF) and the Guanxian-Anxian faults (GAF), respectively. So far, most of the frictional investigations were performed on the YBF gouge materials. Here, we present the results of rotary shear friction experiments performed on the GAF gouges recovered from the depth of similar to 1.25 km of the Wenchuan Earthquake Fault Scientific Drilling project-3 along the GAF. The fault gouges, mainly composed of quartz, illite, chlorite, and kaolinite, were sheared at slip velocities V ranging from 10(-5) to 2 m/s and normal stresses from 8.5 to 10 MPa under both room humidity and wet conditions. At any imposed slip velocity, the wet gouges have an apparent friction coefficient lower than the room humidity one. In addition, enhanced velocity-strengthening behavior at intermediate velocities (10(-2) m/s V <= 10(-1) m/s) was recognized. We characterized the products using field-emission scanning electron microscopy combined with synchrotron X-ray diffraction analysis. These microanalytical investigations evidence the formation of size-reduced particles (without mineral phase changes) and R- and Y-shears in the principal slip zone (PSZ). Regardless of the ambient conditions, the width of PSZ was proportional to the input frictional work density (the product of shear stress times displacement). Our results support the hypothesis that the GAF preferentially ruptures through wet fault gouges; however, the enhanced velocity-strengthening regime at intermediate velocities may act as a barrier to slip acceleration during fault rupture propagation.
Spatio-temporal evolution of post-seismic landslides and debris flows provides a new perspective to understand post-earthquake evolution of geological environments and landscapes, and to instruct cascaded catastrophic hazard mitigation and post-disaster reconstruction. However, limited earthquake events have been investigated for post-earthquake geohazard evolution. This work reports the geohazard evolution after the 2017 M-s 7.0 Jiuzhaigou earthquake considering the effects of the earthquake, geology, terrain, meteorology, hydrology, and human engineering activity. Some new viewpoints are suggested. (1) Landslide and debris flow activity intensified in the first year following the earthquake under the effects of the antecedent earthquake, precipitation, fault tectonics, human engineering activity, and fluvial networks. (2) Landslide and debris flow activity declined rapidly in the second year as a result of dramatically reduced sediments, declined rainfall, and self-healed slopes. (3) The significant decay of landslide and debris flow activity and the prominent reduction of loose deposits indicate that the geological environment was gradually restoring. (4) Although the hazard effect mitigation and geological environment restoration were ongoing (in the absence of rainstorm events) to attain a new balance, the geoenvironment has not returned to the pre-earthquake level because of widespread unrecovered geohazards and the remaining loose deposits on hillslopes or in channels. (5) The geological environment after the Jiuzhaigou earthquake may re-equilibrate and return to the pre-earthquake level more quickly than after the Kashmir, Chi-Chi, Gorkha, Wenchuan, and Murchison earthquakes. This work provides new knowledge pertaining to geohazard evolution after a strong earthquake and to profound impacts of a catastrophic earthquake on geological environment and landscape.
This article provides a critical review of the archaeological, geological and historical evidence concerning the southern Levantine earthquake of 418/419 AD, specifically its effects on Petra. Historical accounts indicate that the earthquake caused destruction in Jerusalem and elsewhere, but archaeological evidence is sparse. Numerous destruction layers at sites in the Galilee were attributed to the 418/419 earthquake, but these attributions have all been questioned due to the presence of material in these layers post-dating the early 5th century AD. To the south, the attribution of the destruction of the Spatromisch II phase at al-Zantur, in Petra, to this earthquake has largely been accepted. This paper reviews the published evidence and determines that this, too, has been dated too early. Based on this evidence, I suggest that the destruction of al-Zantur Spatromisch II occurred in the 6th century and argue that the 418/419 earthquake was a relatively minor event, primarily affecting the Jerusalem region. This has bearing on the dating of diagnostic artifact types found in this phase, notably the Negev wheel-made lamp, which I argue should be considered a reliable indicator of dates in the 6th-7th century AD. This, in turn, has implications for the dating of other sites, notably the Petra Church.
The rocking derailment mechanism of railway vehicles due to the earthquake-induced roll motion is investigated through a coupled vehicle/track dynamic model together with a simplified roll-plane vehicle model. The coupled vehicle/track dynamic model is formulated through a typical high-speed train model incorporating with a track model to study dynamic responses and rocking derailment procedure under earthquake excitations. The results indicate that the lateral earthquake excitation can impose significant effects on the running safety of vehicle, and further lead to the rocking derailment. A simplified roll plane vehicle model subjected to the lateral earthquake excitation is thus developed to derive the critical condition of rocking derailment, which further contribute to a criterion for earthquake- induced rocking derailment. Moreover, a conservative limit, in term of equivalent acceleration of lateral earthquake excitation, has been identified considering different earthquake excitations. This could serve as a threshold for assessment of operational safety of rail vehicle in the presence of earthquake condition.
Presently, consensus on the incorporation of induced earthquakes into seismic hazard has yet to be established. For example, the nonstationary, spatiotemporal nature of induced earthquakes is not well understood. Specific to the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin, geological bias in seismogenic activation potential has been suggested to control the spatial distribution of induced earthquakes regionally. In this paper, we train a machine learning algorithm to systemically evaluate tectonic, geomechanical, and hydrological proxies suspected to control induced seismicity. Feature importance suggests that proximity to basement, in situ stress, proximity to fossil reef margins, lithium concentration, and rate of natural seismicity are among the strongest model predictors. Our derived seismogenic potential map faithfully reproduces the current distribution of induced seismicity and is suggestive of other regions which may be prone to induced earthquakes. The refinement of induced seismicity geological susceptibility may become an important technique to identify significant underlying geological features and address induced seismic hazard forecasting issues.
After more than 100 years of earthquake research, earthquake forecasting, which relies on knowledge of past fault rupture patterns, has become the foundation for societal defense against seismic natural disasters. A concept that has come into focus more recently is that rupture segmentation and cyclicity can be complex, and that a characteristic earthquake model is too simple to adequately describe much of fault behavior. Nevertheless, recognizable patterns in earthquake recurrence emerge from long, high resolution, spatially distributed chronologies. Researchers now seek to discover the maximum, minimum, and typical rupture areas; the distribution, variability, and spatial applicability of recurrence intervals; and patterns of earthquake clustering in space and time. The term supercycle has been used to describe repeating longer periods of elastic strain accumulation and release that involve multiple fault ruptures. However, this term has become very broadly applied, lumping together several distinct phenomena that likely have disparate underlying causes. We divide earthquake cycle behavior into four major classes that have different implications for seismic hazard and fault mechanics: 1) quasi-periodic similar ruptures, 2) clustered similar ruptures, 3) clustered complementary ruptures/rupture cascades, and 4) superimposed cycles. Segmentation is likewise an ambiguous term; we identify master segments and asperities as defined by barriers to fault rupture. These barriers may be persistent (rarely or never traversed), frequent (occasionally traversed), or ephemeral (changing location from cycle to cycle). We compile a catalog of the historical and paleoseismic evidence that currently exists for each of these types of behavior on major well-studied faults worldwide. Due to the unique level of paleoseismic and paleogeodetic detail provided by the coral microatoll technique, the Sumatran Sunda megathrust provides one of the most complete records over multiple earthquake rupture cycles. Long historical records of earthquakes along the South American and Japanese subduction zones are also vital contributors to our catalog, along with additional data compiled from subduction zones in Cascadia, Alaska, and Middle America, as well as the North Anatolian and Dead Sea strike-slip faults in the Middle East. We find that persistent and frequent barriers, rupture cascades, superimposed cycles, and quasi-periodic similar ruptures are common features of most major faults. Clustered similar ruptures do not appear to be common, but broad overlap zones between neighboring segments do occur. Barrier regions accommodate slip through reduced interseismic coupling, slow slip events, and/or smaller more localized ruptures, and are frequently associated with structural features such as subducting seafloor relief or fault trace discontinuities. This catalog of observations provides a basis for exploring and modeling root causes of rupture segmentation and cycle behavior. We expect that researchers will recognize similar behavior styles on other major faults around the world. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The paper provides a comparative analysis of precursory phenomena in the ionosphere and atmosphere for two strong earthquakes of the same magnitude M7.1 that happened in the same region (North-East from Los Angeles) within a time span of 20 years, the Hector Mine and Ridgecrest earthquakes. Regardless of the similarity of their location (South-Eastern California, near 160 km one from another), there was one essential difference: the Hector Mine earthquake happened during geomagnetically disturbed conditions (essential in the sense of ionospheric precursors identification). In contrast, the quiet geomagnetic conditions characterized the period around the time of the Ridgecrest earthquake. The Hector mine earthquake happened in the middle of the rising phase of the 23-rd solar cycle characterized by high solar activity, while the Ridgecrest earthquake happened by the very end of the 24th cycle under very low solar activity conditions. We provide a comprehensive multi-factor analysis, determine the precursory period for both earthquakes and demonstrate the close similarity of ionospheric precursors. Unlike the majority of papers dealing with earthquake precursor identification based on the abnormality of observed time-series mainly determined by amplitude difference between normal (usually climatic) behavior and abnormal behavior with amplitudes exceeding some pre-established threshold, we used the technique of cognitive recognition of the precursors based on the physical mechanisms of their generation and the morphology of their behavior during the precursory period. These permits to uniquely identify precursors even in conditions of disturbed environment as it was around the time of the Hector Mine earthquake. We demonstrate the close similarity of precursors' development for both events. The leading time of precursor appearance for the same region and similar magnitude was identical. For the Hector Mine it was 11 October 1999-5 days in advance-and for 2019 Ridgecrest it was 28 June-7 days before the mainshock and five days before the strongest foreshock.
Earthquake ground motion often triggers landslides in mountainous areas. A simple, robust method to quickly evaluate the terrain's susceptibility of specific locations to earthquake-triggered landslides is important for planning field reconnaissance and rescues after earthquakes. Different approaches have been used to estimate coseismic landslide susceptibility using Newmark's sliding block model. This model requires an estimate of the landslide depth or thickness, which is a difficult parameter to estimate. We illustrate the use of Newmark sliding block's critical acceleration for a glaciated valley affected by the 2015 Gorkha earthquake in Nepal. The landslide data came from comparing high-resolution pre- and post-earthquake digital elevation models (DEMs) derived from Spot 6/7 images. The areas where changes were detected provided an inventory of all the landslides triggered by the earthquake. The landslide susceptibility was modeled in a GIS environment using as inputs the pre-earthquake terrain and slope angles, the peak ground acceleration from the 2015 Gorkha earthquake, and a geological map. We exploit the depth information for the landslides (obtained by DEM difference) to apply the critical acceleration model. The spatial distribution of the predicted earthquake-triggered landslides matched the actual landslides when the assumed landslide thickness in the model is close to the median value of the actual landslide thickness (2.6 m in this case). The landslide predictions generated a map of landslide locations close to those observed and demonstrated the applicability of critical acceleration for rapidly creating a map of earthquake-triggered landslides.
Objective To investigate the clinical characteristics of patients with ischemic stroke following the 2016 Kumamoto earthquake. Methods We retrospectively studied patients with ischemic stroke admitted to 5 stroke centers for 1 year after the earthquake. We compared clinical characteristics in these patients (the post-earthquake group) to those in the patients with ischemic stroke admitted during the same period from the previous 3 years (the pre-earthquake group). Additionally, we analyzed the trend of the incidence rate of stroke before and after the earthquake. Results A total of 1979 patients were admitted after the earthquake; 5670 (1,890/year on average) patients were admitted before the earthquake. A first-ever ischemic stroke (71 vs. 75%) and premorbid modified Rankin Scale > 1 (26 vs. 29%) were found significantly more frequently in patients after the earthquake. National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score <= 2 at discharge (60 vs. 65%) was found more frequently in patients after the earthquake, although non-discharge to home (65 vs. 70%) was more frequent in patients after the earthquake. Trend analysis revealed a decrease of small vessel occlusion and large artery atherosclerosis in the month after the earthquake. Conclusions The 2016 Kumamoto earthquake may have affected the characteristics of stroke during the early phase of the earthquake and increased the difficulty in returning home.
In the present paper we have conducted studies on seismological properties using worldwide data of deep earthquakes (depth larger than 70 km), considering events with magnitude greater than or equal to 4.5. This work is an extension of a previous study using a similar approach, for shallow events. We have addressed the problem under the perspective of complex networks, using a time window model to build the networks for deep earthquakes. These networks present scale-free and small-world features, contributing to strengthen the use of the time window model to construct epicenters networks. The results for deep events were analyzed using Nonextensive Statistical Mechanics and they corroborate with those found for the shallow ones, since the connectivity distribution for deep earthquakes also follows a q-exponential distribution and the scaling behavior is present. Our findings reinforce the idea of long-range correlations between earthquakes and the criticality of the seismological system. (c) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Adjacent buildings with anticollision system would have the possibility of pounding under earthquake if there is insufficient separate distance between the two buildings. The effect of pounding and earthquake characters on the optimum parameters for anticollision system is studied through time-history analysis method in this paper. Interstory displacement ratio, energy consumption ratio, and the total strain energy of the two buildings are considered as control variables. The results show that the pounding between adjacent buildings will reduce the range of optimum parameters, and earthquake characters also have effect on the selection of optimum parameters. Therefore, it is strongly recommended to input more than three ground motion records for a time-history analysis to get the optimum parameters considering the effect of pounding and earthquake characters.
Probabilistic extreme value theory is an interesting and fascinating theory with a great variety of applications. In probability theory and statistics, this distribution is used to model extreme (maximum or minimum) observations. Generalized Extreme Value (GEV)distribution is frequently applied to forecast natural events such as floods, air pollution, extreme sea levels, hydrology, meteorology, climatology, insurance, finance, geology and seismology. In this study general information about Maximum Likelihood Estimation and Bayesian Inference were investigated using the parameter estimation methods. The application of the study was completed using earthquake data from Van provincial center in Turkey from 1995 to 2017. This data used the Maximum Likelihood Estimation and Bayesian Estimation methods in an attempt to predict the severity of earthquakes expected to occur in the future.
Major earthquakes occasionally cause vertiginous attacks or persistent dizziness, which may be related to the effects of autonomic stress on equilibrium function and/or psychological factors. We present the case of a 73-year-old woman who suffered from persistent dizziness for 1 year, during which she lived in a house tilted by the great 2011 Tohoku earthquake. An electronystagmogram demonstrated leftward horizontal and downbeat nystagmus in the sitting and supine positions with eyes closed. Caloric testing and cervical vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials showed normal responses in both ears. Posturography indicated no involvement of psychological factors or autonomic stress. After moving into a new apartment, both the dizziness and nystagmus completely disappeared within 10 weeks. We speculate that the gravity-related linear acceleration with vertical and horizontal components in the tilted house may have chronically stimulated the otoliths, inducing the symptoms and nystagmus via the velocity storage mechanism. (C) 2019 Oto-Rhino-Laryngological Society of Japan Inc. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Some new results were obtained by the array of EN-detectors (Electron and Neutron detectors) developed in the frame of the PRISMA (PRimary Spectrum Measurement Array) project for Extensive Mr Showers detection. Our EN-detectors running both on the Earth surface and underground are continuously measuring the environmental thermal neutron flux. Neutrons are partially produced by radioactive gas radon and its daughter decays through (alpha,n)-reactions in soil close to the detectors. Then neutrons thermalize in media and, being in equilibrium with it, they are sensitive to many geo-dynamic phenomena including earthquakes. In this work the EN-detectors were measuring the variations of an environmental neutron flux in Tibet (30.11 N, 90.53 E, 4300 m a.s.l) at a distance of similar to 600 km from the collision zone of the Asian-Indian plates subduction zone (Nepal region). We have ob- served some anomalies in the dynamics of the neutron flux around the time of the catastrophic earthquakes of magnitude M = 7.8 happened in Gorkha (Nepal) on 25.04.2015 followed by a series of aftershocks of M > 6. The use of nuclear physics methods can provide novel results in geophysics and this work demonstrates the sensitivity of the environmental thermal neutron flux to changes in tense-deformed crust conditions caused by earthquakes with epicentral distances greater than 500 km.
The prediction of the magnitude of an earthquake is still a challenge in the studies of seismic processes. The machine learning approaches have been developed recently to predict only the magnitude of next incoming earthquake using historical data. In this study, we combine neural networks with the meta-learning to predict not only the magnitude of the next earthquake, but also that of several earthquakes in the future. We successfully applied this novel method to predict the magnitude of Italian earthquakes above three different threshold magnitude. The experimental results show that the meta-learning based neural networks perform much better than the classical machine learning.
News agencies work around the clock to report critical news such as earthquakes. We investigate the relationship between online news articles and seismic events that happen around the world in real time. We utilize computer text mining tools to automatically harvest, identify, cluster and extract information from earthquake-related reports, and carry out cross-validation on the mined information. Earthquake parameters retrieved from the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Application Programming Interface (API) are organized into earthquake events, with each event consisting of daily earthquake readings taking place in a particular geographical location. The results are then visualized on a user-friendly dashboard. 268,182 news reports published by 23 news agencies from different parts of the world and 14,717 earthquakes of magnitude ranging from 4 to 8.2 listed in the bulletin were processed during a 1-year study between 2018 and 2019. 1.25% of the analyzed articles had the word quake and 0.4% were clustered and then mapped to an earthquake event. The use of multilingual news sources from 16 countries (6 languages) gives the advantage of reducing potential news bias originating from English-written reports only. The mapping of articles with an earthquake catalog helps verify earthquake reports and determine relationships. We find that the distribution of the reported seismicity is from earthquakes that occur on or very close to land. We propose a general relationship between the number of news agencies, the earthquake magnitude and the anticipated number of published articles. News reports tend to mention higher earthquake magnitudes than those in the USGS earthquake catalog, and the reports on earthquakes can last from a few days to a couple of weeks following the earthquake.
Rock rheology and density have first-order effects on the lithosphere's response to plate tectonic forces at plate boundaries. Changes in these rock properties are controlled by metamorphic transformation processes that are critically dependent on the presence of fluids. At the onset of a continental collision, the lower crust is in most cases dry and strong. However, if exposed to internally produced or externally supplied fluids, the thickened crust will react and be converted into a mechanically weaker lithology by fluid-driven metamorphic reactions. Fluid introduction is often associated with deep crustal earthquakes. Microstructural evidence, suggest that in strong highly stressed rocks, seismic slip may be initiated by brittle deformation and that wall-rock damage caused by dynamic ruptures plays a very important role in allowing fluids to enter into contact with dry and highly reactive lower crustal rocks. The resulting metamorphism produces weaker rocks which subsequently deform by viscous creep. Volumes of weak rocks contained in a highly stressed environment of strong rocks may experience significant excursions toward higher pressure without any associated burial. Slow and highly localized creep processes in a velocity strengthening regime may produce mylonitic shear zones along faults initially characterized by earthquake-generated frictional melting and wall rock damage. However, stress pulses from earthquakes in the shallower brittle regime may kick start new episodes of seismic slip at velocity weakening conditions. These processes indicate that the evolution of the lower crust during continental collisions is controlled by the transient interplay between brittle deformation, fluid-rock interactions, and creep flow.
Earthquake casualty prediction is crucial for efficient and effective emergency management and response. In order to improve prediction reliability of earthquake casualties, correlation analysis and principal component analysis are used to select prediction covariates. Finally, five key indexes, including magnitude, epicenter intensity, population density, earthquake occurrence time and damaged building area, are chosen. According to the two-stage rule of earthquake casualties, a prediction model based on the modified partial Gaussian curve is proposed. In order to improve its prediction accuracy, the paper looked epicenter intensity and the casualty as the variables. And the partial Gaussian curve prediction model is modified by using the magnitude coefficient, population density coefficient, earthquake occurrence time coefficient and damaged building coefficient. The cross-validation experimental results show that the modified partial Gaussian curve has the advantages of good stability and high prediction accuracy comparing with the high-order nonlinearity, logarithmic curve, multivariate linearity, artificial neural network and so on. It can be used in practice from earthquake casualty prediction.
The casualties and financial losses caused by large earthquakes have led to an awareness of prediction importance of such earthquakes. The earthquake prediction is divided into four categories: long term, intermediate term, short term, and immediate. The M8 algorithm is one of the intermediate-term middle-range prediction algorithms primarily used to predict earthquake of magnitude 8 or more and is applied later for smaller magnitudes. The Iranian Plateau is less exposed to earthquake with magnitude 8 or more and it is observed that the seismicity rate in this region is generally low. Thus; the original M8 is not suitable for applying in this region. The objective of this study is to modify the M8 algorithm for Prediction of Major M7.0+Earthquakes in the Iranian Plateau. The major earthquake of magnitude 7 or more in the Iranian plateau from 1975 to 2018 is considered as the target earthquakes. The hit rate times 1 minus alarm rate is defined as objective function and the particles swarm optimization meta-heuristic algorithm is used to maximize it. The optimum M8 could predict 14 out of 17 large earthquakes in the Iranian plateau while occupying 31.7% of the spatio-temporal space as the alarm. The results show that by employing an optimization algorithm, we can modify the M8 algorithm for efficient prediction of the target magnitudes less than 8 in the regions with low seismicity rate.
The M-L 5.8 earthquake shocked Gyeongju, Korea, at 11:32:55 UTC on September 12, 2016. One year later, on the afternoon of November 15, 2017, the M-L 5.4 earthquake occurred in Pohang, South Korea. The earthquakes injured many residents, damaged buildings, and affected the economy of Gyeongju and Pohang. The damage proxy maps (DPMs) were generated from Sentinel-1 synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imagery by comparing pre- and co-events interferometric coherences to identify anomalous changes that indicate damaged by the earthquakes. DPMs manage to detect coherence loss in residential and commercial areas in both Gyeongju and Pohang earthquakes. We found that our results show a good correlation with the Korea Meteorological Administration (KMA) report with Modified Mercalli Intensity (MMI) scale values of more than VII (seven). The color scale of Sentinel-1 DPMs indicates an increasingly significant change in the area covered by the pixel, delineating collapsed walls and roofs from the official report. The resulting maps can be used to assess the distribution of seismic damage after the Gyeongju and Pohang earthquakes and can also be used as inventory data of damaged buildings to map seismic vulnerability using machine learning in Gyeongju or Pohang.
Materials on earthquakes in Samarkand and Ferhana regions (Republic of Uzbekistan) in 1868-1892 are presented based on original sources of information not used before. The epicenter location and magnitude for the earthquakes April 7, 1869, and March 2, 1892, are evaluated for the first time; for the other two earthquakes (April 3, 1868, and September 18, 1892), the uncertainty of previously published solutions is significantly reduced. Reduction of uncertainties of prior solutions is achieved owing to the formalized method of epicentral and magnitude assessment, which works successfully with sparse datasets. One of the restrictions on the entire set of solutions is association of the epicenter with certain active tectonic structures. This criterion is used only for selecting the preferable solution from the entire set of solutions obtained solely from macroseismic data. The complete set of solutions is retained and can be used to analyze the accuracy and objectivity of the preferable solution.
On 17 June 2019, an Ms6.0 earthquake occurred in Changning, Sichuan, China (Changning event), which was the largest earthquake on record within 50 km of the area. It attracted great attention as the area has the largest shale gas production in China as well as significant mineral salt production. Using the Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR), we extract the coseismic deformation of the Changning event and two earlier Ms > 5.0 earthquakes which occurred in the same region (16 December 2018 Ms5.7 and 3 January 2019 Ms5.3) from the Sentinel-1 and ALOS2 data. We use nonlinear and linear methods to invert the fault models of the three earthquakes based on the deformation fields. The final model shows that the Changning event was caused by a fault with left-lateral strike and thrust slip. The strike is 124.3 degrees with a dip angle of 43.4 degrees. The seismic moment obtained by inversion is 5.28 x 10(17) Nm, corresponding to Mw 5.78. Based on the fault models, we analyze the cause of the Changning earthquake considering the local tectonic setting, Coulomb stress change, mining, and fluid injection. We consider that the event may be related to salt mining. The two earlier Ms > 5.0 earthquakes may also play an important role in advancing the Changning earthquake.
With the model of telluric field rock cracks, this work analyzes 40 geoelectric field stations with better electromagnetic environment and device systems in main blocks of Chinese mainland. It is found that rock crack structure of the 80% sites is in the development stage, that of the 15% is in an orderly stage of growth and the 5% is rather broken. These crack structures of the rock masses at different stages correspond to different magnitudes and direction change features of the telluric field. Six typical earthquakes in mainland China from 2013 to March 2018 are analyzed. The results show that rock cracks are in the stage of growth or well developed concentrated at the sites within 200 km to epicenters of major earthquakes, and at these sites occurred more easily structural variations such as rock shear cracks, deflection of preferred orientation of cracks and large jump. Outside 200 km to the epicenters, jumps of preferred orientations of cracks occurred at the sites. On the whole, these phenomena also have features of time quasi-synchronization and site selectivity.
Earthquakes often rupture across more than one fault segment. If such rupture segmentation occurs on a significant scale, a simple point-source or one-fault model may not represent the rupture process well. As a consequence earthquake characteristics inferred, based on one-source assumptions, may become systematically wrong. This might have effects on follow-up analyses, for example regional stress field inversions and seismic hazard assessments. While rupture segmentation is evident for most M-w > 7 earthquakes, also smaller ones with 5.5 < M-w < 7 can be segmented. We investigate the sensitivity of globally available data sets to rupture segmentation and their resolution to reliably estimate the mechanisms in presence of segmentation. We focus on the sensitivity of InSAR (Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar) data in the static near-field and seismic waveforms in the far-field of the rupture and carry out non-linear and Bayesian optimizations of single-source and two-sources kinematic models (double-couple point sources and finite, rectangular sources) using InSAR and teleseismic waveforms separately. Our case studies comprises of four M-w 6-7 earthquakes: the 2009 L'Aquila and 2016 Amatrice (Italy) and the 2005 and 2008 Zhongba (Tibet) earthquakes. We contrast the data misfits of different source complexity by using the Akaike informational criterion (AIC). We find that the AIC method is well suited for data-driven inferences on significant rupture segmentation for the given data sets. This is based on our observation that an AIC-stated significant improvement of data fit for two-segment models over one-segment models correlates with significantly different mechanisms of the two source segments and their average compared to the single-segment mechanism. We attribute these modelled differences to a sufficient sensitivity of the data to resolve rupture segmentation. Our results show that near-field data are generally more sensitive to rupture segmentation of shallow earthquakes than far-field data but that also teleseismic data can resolve rupture segmentation in the studied magnitude range. We further conclude that a significant difference in the modelled source mechanisms for different segmentations shows that an appropriate choice of model segmentation matters for a robust estimation of source mechanisms. It reduces systematic biases and trade-off and thereby improves the knowledge on the rupture. Our study presents a strategy and method to detect significant rupture segmentation such that an appropriate model complexity can be used in the source mechanism inference. A similar, systematic investigation of earthquakes in the range of M-w 5.5-7 could provide important hazard-relevant statistics on rupture segmentation. In these cases single-source models introduce a systematic bias. Consideration of rupture segmentation therefore matters for a robust estimation of source mechanisms of the studied earthquakes.
Purpose - This study aims to provide resiliency against earthquakes to the framework of an urban road network and to construct a comprehensive model with sufficient computational detail to assist metropolitan managers as a decision support tool in emergency situations via parametric analysis (model behaviour analysis with parameter changes) to quantify the consequences of decisions. Design/methodology/approach - Performed stages are: developing existing resilience assessment frameworks for use against earthquakes in urban road networks, identifying earthquake scenarios and estimating the weight of components using AHP, including an example modelling of Tehran; and developing modelling software (using Matlab (R)). Findings - This study produced a software that performs three-dimensional (3D) graphical modelling, resiliency index measurements and its parametric analyses for the road networks against earthquakes. Based on this model, a prioritized list of upgrades is also introduced. The developed tool also addresses issues regarding the allocation of limited resources between the network components. Research limitations/implications - Because of the novelty of the study, there is limited literature on this topic. Practical implications - The developed model provides urban managers with a comprehensive list of upgrades and empowering them to graphically and numerically evaluate the resiliency changes as they alter the parameters of these measures and balance their decisions based on available funding. Originality/value - In contrast to previous studies, this study has focused on all of these three keywords: resiliency, earthquake and road networks, and not only two of them.
The main goal of present study is to test the functionality of an earthquake early warning (EEW) system (a life-saving tool), in India using synthesized data and recorded earthquake data from Taiwan. In recent time, India set up an EEW system in the central seismic gap along the Himalayan Belt, consisting of about 100 low-cost P-Alert instruments. The area, where these instruments are installed, is highly sensitive to the seismic risk with the potential of strong, major and great earthquakes. In the absence of recorded data from the Himalayas required for analysis of such system, we take advantage of recorded waveforms from Taiwan, to test the EEW system. We selected Taiwanese stations in good accordance with the Indian sensor network, to have a best fit in terms of inter station spacing. Finally, the recorded waveforms are passed through Earthworm software using tankplayer module. The system performs very well in terms of earthquake detection, P-wave picking, earthquake magnitude and location (using previously estimated regressions). P-d algorithm has been tested where the peak amplitude of vertical displacement is used for estimating magnitudes using previously regressed empirical relationship data. For the earthquakes located between Main Boundary Thrust and Main Central Thrust along with a matching instrumentation window, a good estimate of location, as well as magnitude is observed. The approach based on P-d for estimating magnitude works perfectly as compared to c approach, which is more sensitive to signal-to-noise ratio. To make it more region specific, we generated synthetic seismograms from the epicenters of historical Chamoli (1999) and Uttarkashi (1991) earthquakes at EEW stations in India and checked the functionality of EEW. While placing these earthquakes within the instrumentation window, a good approximation of earthquake location and magnitude is obtained by passing these generated waveforms. The parameters used to judge the performance of EEW system included the time taken by the system in issuing warning after the confirmation of the occurrence of damaging earthquake and the lead time (time interval between the issuing of warning and arrival of damaging earthquake ground motion at a particular location). High lead times have been obtained for the plainer regions including thickly populated regions of Gangetic plains, such as Delhi National Capital Region according to the distance from the epicenter, which are the main target of EEW system.
In the advent of the Tohoku earthquake (M-w 9.1 occurred at 14:46 LT on March 11, 2011), the Japan Meteorological Agency issued earthquake early warning announcements to the general public; however, there were problems with the precision of the early warning systems. This early warning systems issue, and the scale of consequential loss of human, material and technological resources of the Tohoku earthquake and those of about 57 earthquakes with magnitude M >= 7.5 from August 2008 to August 2018 around the world compel a need for investigation for detection of some signals before the earthquake that should be examined and interpreted as a precursor by examining the changes in the ionospheric phenomena. In this light, discrimination of pre-earthquake ionospheric anomalies of seismic origin from those of other drivers is essential for understanding, justification and physical interpretation of the earthquake precursors phenomena. Presently using a set of criteria that adequately differentiates pre-earthquake anomaly of seismic origin from those of other sources, this study has shown concordant results with the existing studies namely that foF2 data obtained from 8 Chinese and Japanese stations revealed significant enhancements 2-6 days before the Tohoku earthquake and that the anomalies extended to 2774 km from the epicentre, thereby underscoring the necessity of requisite criteria in detecting pre-earthquake ionospheric precursors. Furthermore, the study suggests that the anomalous variations observed during periods of earthquake preparation are of seismo-magnetosphere origin.
Earthquake location is one of the oldest problems in seismology, yet remains an active research topic. With dense seismic monitoring networks, it is possible to obtain reliable locations for microcarthquakes; however, in many cases dense networks arc lacking, limiting the location accuracy, or preventing location when there are too few observations. For small events in all settings, recording may be sparse and location may be difficult due to low signal-to-noise ratio. In this work, we introduce a new, distance-geometry-based method to locate seismicity clusters using only one or two seismic stations. A distance geometry problem consists in determining the location of sets of points based only on the distances between member pairs. Applied to seismology, our approach allows earthquake location using the interevent distance between earthquake pairs, which can be estimated using only one or two seismic stations. We first validate the method with synthetic data that resemble common cluster shapes, and then test the method with two seismic sequences in California: the August 2014 M-w 6.0 Napa earthquake and the July 2019 M-w 6.4 Ridgecrest earthquake sequence. We demonstrate that our approach provides robust and reliable results even for a single station. When using two seismic stations, the results capture the same structures recovered with high-resolution double-difference locations based on multiple stations. The proposed method is particularly useful for poorly monitored areas, where only a limited number of stations are available.
An Mw6.6 earthquake occurred at 3a.m. on September 6, 2018, in the eastern part of Iburi, Hokkaido. This earthquake killed 41 people, caused a series of service interruptions in Sapporo city. Soil liquefaction and approximately 6000 landslides were triggered. A field investigation was conducted on liquefaction and typical landslides during September 18 to 24, 2018. The liquefaction disaster exhibited soil flow, subgrade collapse, uneven settlement, earthquake subsidence, and deformation of buildings. After investigation of typical landslides, it was found that owing to the continuous heavy rainfall and typhoon, the surface soil had a high-water content. A layered loam of approximately 2 m below ground surface developed into a weak surface. Based on the analysis of sliding morphology, the landslides were classified into translational earth slides and earth flow. To clarify the mechanism of regional landslides, the stability and permanent displacement of slopes considering effect of continuous heavy rainfall and seismic motion was analyzed. Limit equilibrium analysis was applied based on the pseudo-static method. Then Newmark displacement calculation was conducted based on the seismic acceleration record. The distribution range of analysis results showed agreement with actual landslides disasters. The results verified the contribution of continuous rainfall and strong motion to the failure of regional slopes.
In this study, the possible changes in microbial communities after the occurrence of an earthquake were investigated. To this end, the effects of the 2016 Gyeongju earthquake (M-L 5.8) on the microbial communities in nearby aquifers were analyzed together with associated hydrochemistry data. Fourteen water samples were collected from two types of wells (alluvial and fractured rock formation); hydrogeochemical parameters, groundwater level, radon concentration, strontium isotopes, and microbiological features were monitored. The results obtained for microbial compositions and special bacteria were consistent with the hydrochemical results. Distinctive microbial communities in groundwater samples taken adjacent to the earthquake epicenter were also observed. The predominant bacteria in most samples were Pseudomonas and Flavobacterium. Radon concentrations, helium isotopes, and the helium/neon ratio showed anomalies in one well (KW8) compared to microbial composition data. Strontium data indicated that the study site may have been affected by seawater intrusion; this was corroborated by the microbiological features of archaea. The results indicate that an earthquake can change the number of species or their abundance in groundwater ecosystems. Therefore, microbial features might be a good additional indicator for analyzing the effects of earthquakes on groundwater, together with major chemical parameters such as radon, strontium, and helium. The microbiological features indicate that levels of bacteria such as Pseudomonas and Flavobacterium in the groundwater were highly correlated with the Gyeongju earthquake and the associated hydrochemical data.
The 2015 earthquake in Nepal affected approximately 8 million people, resulting in an economic loss of 10 billion US dollars. We exploit the quasi-random spatial and temporal nature of ground tremors to evaluate the impact of the 2015 earthquake on international labor migration per 100,000 population in Nepal. Using different sets of difference-in-differences research designs, we show that the number of work permits issued to Nepalese individuals for international migration decreased significantly in districts severely affected by the 2015 earthquake. Results further indicate that the effect of the earthquake on international labor migration is statistically significant and negative only among males. Together, these results provide strong evidence that natural disasters induce significant changes in labor market outcomes in a developing country setting.(c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
On November 15, 2019, a sequence of small/micro earthquakes struck specific area near an oil production field in the northern part of the State of Kuwait. Generally, the phenomenon of the earthquakes swarming is rarely occurring in Kuwait. More than 56 earthquakes were monitored by the Kuwait National Seismic Network (KNSN) where the magnitudes of the earthquakes ranged between 0.8 and 4.1, and their recorded continued for two consecutive days. In this respect, we conducted a modern geophysical analysis (e.g. waveform-fitting, spectral analysis and faulting focal mechanism) to identify the nature and origin of these earthquakes. The values of moment tensors, double-couple (DC) and non-double-couple components signature, stress drop, and stress ratios are fundamentally calculated, in addition to detailed knowledge of the structural setting of the region where earthquake swarming occurred were also used to distinguish and estimate natural and anthropogenic components percentages of theses earthquakes. The results obtained indicated that these earthquakes sequence has an equivalent anthropogenic to tectonic component, meaning that it occurred as a result of oil extraction, but also occurred on pre-existing faults.
We studied changes in the zenith total delay (ZTD) and total electron content (TEC) associated with the large 2015 Nepal earthquake (Mw 7.8). We analyzed the ZTD derived from GPS data received at HYDE, LCK3 International GNSS Service (IGS) stations and MSUN operated by National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI). The ZTD value, which is sensitive to tropospheric weather conditions, showed a sharp drop during and following the mainshock as well as the largest aftershock of the Nepal earthquake sequence. The changes in ZTD most likely represent changes in the atmospheric pressures, although their changes due to seasonal changes in hydrology (surface loading of water storage) cannot be completely ruled out. Effects of earthquake processes such as large stress drop, low radiation efficiency of the 2015 event, and conversion of elastic energy to shear heating (anelastic loss) during propagation of surface waves from large earthquakes over teleseismic distances contributes to the real ground deformation, as inferred from changes in GPS-derived ZTD. The coincident decrease in ZTD and TEC suggests hydration in the atmosphere by the joining of ions in the atmosphere during earthquakes. Almost the same results regarding the changes in ZTD and TEC were obtained for another large event (the 1999 Chamoli earthquake of Mw 6.8) in the Himalayan region, although they differ slightly in intensity depending on the observation distance.
Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) is an established method to measure earthquake surface displacements. However, due to decorrelation and atmospheric noise, only a certain fraction of earthquakes is readily observable with single interferograms. To enhance the potential of retrieving InSAR earthquake observations, we apply InSAR time series analysis and use several recent earthquakes (M-w 5.6-6.3, 2018-2019) in Iran as case studies. We find that the coseismic displacement signals of these earthquakes, which might not be discernible within single interferograms, are better resolved using our approach. We reconstruct the coseismic deformation fields by fitting surface displacements using a time series approach. We find that the reconstructed coseismic deformation fields yield more robust and seismologically consistent earthquake modeling results when compared to single coseismic interferograms. Our work suggests that a time series approach is an effective way to improve the resolving power of InSAR for earthquake studies.
Weak first-story buildings are susceptible to experience severe structural damage, and even collapse, during strong earthquakes as was evidenced during the September 19, 2017 (Mw = 7.1) intraslab earthquake that hit Mexico City. Such type of buildings are prone to exhibit a negative slope in their capacity curve due to weak firststory mechanism that might lead to dynamic instability during earthquake excitation. Therefore, this paper presents the main results of an investigation focused on evaluating the collapse strength ratios, Rc (i.e., the normalized lateral strength ratio in the onset of dynamic instability) of single-degree-of-freedom (SDOF) systems whose force-displacement nonlinear envelope (backbone) behavior is representative of that observed in existing multistory weak first-story buildings. Particularly, their envelope exhibit several levels of negative slope after a post-yield displacement ductility capacity. Median and dispersion of Rc ratios were obtained for degrading SDOF systems subjected to a set of 136 earthquake ground motions recorded in soft soil sites of Mexico City from instraslab earthquakes. Results of this investigation showed that Rc ratios depend on the normalized period of vibration with respect to the predominant period of the ground motion, T/Tg, the displacement ductility capacity, mu c, and the negative slope after peak strength, alpha c. Additionally, the spectral trend of Rc ratios at soft soil sites is different to that reported for firm soil sites. A continuous functional form is introduced to obtain estimates of median Rc ratios for the preliminary seismic assessment of weak first-story buildings in this seismic environment.
For determining the focal mechanism and source depth of an earthquake, a frequent practice is to use surface wave records which can be highly noisy. In this case, these records should be preliminarily selected and filtered in a certain spectral band using a frequency-time analysis program. In this paper, we study how the determination uncertainties of earthquake parameters (source depth and focal mechanism) depend on the set of the records used in the analysis. For doing this, we use the jackknife statistical procedure. The results are presented for four events: the strongest aftershock in Tohoku, Japan, that occurred on March 11, 2011, the earthquake of April 25, 2015 in Nepal, and two earthquakes in Alaska on January 23 and November 30, 2018. The analysis conducted for these events shows that the effect of the selected set of records on the determination error of earthquake parameters depends on the focal mechanism and the source depth of the earthquake, the number of the considered records, and the degree of detail of the parametric grid used for constructing the earthquake source model.
An improved stochastic finite-fault method was used to simulate theM(w)6.6 earthquake that occurred on August 8, 2017, in Jiuzhaigou, Sichuan, China. A variation of the stochastic finite-fault method, considering the dynamic corner frequency, was used to overcome the corner frequency. It explains the effect of a given slip distribution on the corner frequency of each subfault. A comparison of the response spectra (damping ratio 5%), spectral ratio (simulated values/observed values), and model deviation demonstrated that the improved corner frequency performs well for the whole periods, especially in short periods from 0.2 to 1 s. Similarly, the revised duration model and the site-amplification factor were applied to simulate the ground motion during the Jiuzhaigou earthquake, and then the response spectra were obtained. The duration of the nine near-field station recordings matched well with the simulated ground motions, and the peak ground acceleration (PGA) of most of the stations matched well with the observed PGA. In the short periods (T < 1 s), a small difference is observed between the simulated response spectra and the observed spectra for most of the stations. However, the response spectra were overestimated within the period range (0.05-10 s). Generally, the simulated ground motions obtained by using the improved model matched well with the observed ground motions, which could be considered the basis for earthquake-resistant design during the postdisaster recovery and the structural dynamic analysis of the Jiuzhaigou region.
This study investigates the strain energy change caused by earthquake faulting. While conventional theories often assumed uniform stress change on the fault plane, this study supposed the slip fluctuation and non-uniform stress change on the fault. By using a stochastic modelling of the slip distribution, we represent the ensemble average of the strain energy change by using the power spectral density function of the slip fluctuation. This yields the following results. (1) When the initial stress is uniform and the earthquake contains a fluctuating slip distribution, the released strain energy is less than the one by an earthquake with the uniform stress change on the fault with the same seismic moment. (2) On the other hand, when the initial stress is fluctuating, the earthquake contains a fluctuating slip distribution, and the final stress is uniform, the released strain energy is more than the one by an earthquake with the uniform stress change on the fault. (3) The stress drop becomes large due to the fluctuating slip distribution from the viewpoint of the strain energy release. We derived the analytical solution of the stress change by using the power spectral density function of the random slip fluctuation. (4) The strain energy change is proportional to the seismic moment when epsilon(2) / a proportional to (M-0)(-1/3) (epsilon(2) is the variance of the fractional slip fluctuation and a is the correlation distance). (5) The energy balance gives the value of initial stress that is required for the earthquake generation. In order to generate an earthquake, the initial stress needs to be larger than the sum of half of the stress drop and the apparent stress. In other words, earthquakes having rich short-wavelength components in the slip distribution are not generated under a low initial stress level.
The social and occupational stigma that impacts on sex workers' resilience following a significant disaster has received little to no attention. To remedy this gap, this paper explores how experiences of stigma have impacted sex workers lives following the 2010-2011 Canterbury earthquakes in Aotearoa New Zealand. We set out to understand how stigma enabled and constrained sex workers' ability to respond to and recover from the earthquakes. We coalesce knowledge from across the domains of sex work, social stigma and disaster management. Semi-structured, in person interviews were held with sex workers who worked during or after the time of the Canterbury earthquakes in O over bar tautahi (Christchurch). Additional interviews were conducted with stakeholders who worked with or continued to support sex workers in Christchurch. From across these interviews, narrative tropes were identified, including the risks of divulging sex work in the aftermath of a disaster; navigating intersectional stigma and accessing help; addressing sex workers' unique needs following the earthquakes; and media as a site of stigma. This research aims to combat the negative effects of stigma by encouraging disaster management officials and associated services to attend to the needs of precariat communities during adverse events.
Earthquake-induced landslide has various spatial characteristics that can be effectively described with the frequency-area curve. Nevertheless, the widely used power-law curve does not reflect well the spatial features of the distribution, and the power exponent does not show the association with the background factors. There is a lack of standards for building the relationship, and its implication on the spatial distribution of landslides has never been analyzed. In this study, we propose a new form of frequency distribution and explore the parameters in the typical watersheds along the highway from Dujiangyan to Wenchuan in the Wenchuan earthquake region. The obtained parameters are related to the landslide density and proportions of the large-scale landslides. Furthermore, a hot spot analysis of landslides in the watersheds is conducted to assess the relationship between the parameters and the spatial cluster patterns of landslides. The hot spots highlight the size and distance of landslide areas that cluster together, whereas the distribution parameters reflect the density and proportions of landslides. This research introduces a new method to analyze the distribution of landslides and their association with the spatial features, which can be applied to the landslide distribution in relation to other influential factors.
In this paper, we propose a location-dependent earthquake prediction based on recurrent neural network algorithms. The location-dependent prediction consists of clustering the seismic dataset based on its geographical parameters (longitude and latitude) using the K-Means algorithm. In addition, we divide each cluster into two specific subsets. The first set consists of events with an average magnitude between 2 and 5, and the second set contains seismic events with magnitudes >5. Clustering allows our models to focus on each region independently. Associated with splitting methods, it helps them to learn the specific trends of each cluster with accurate performance. Moreover, in our work, the large earthquakes with few events are trained independently and remain unaffected by the other dominant events. We implement our models using the powerful recurrent neural network algorithms: Long Short Memory (LSTM), Gated Recurrent Network (GRU), and their hybrid model (LSTM-GRU). They are tested using data related to three different regions: Morocco, Japan, and Turkey. We evaluate the performance according to three metrics: mean absolute error, mean squared error, and root-meansquare error. Compared to other works in the literature, our models generally perform well, especially in predicting large earthquakes.
Earthquakes occur as the natural outcome of the processes that govern a dynamic planet, one that supports plate motions. The internal structure of the Earth that can sustain the convective flow of the mantle and the presence of a strong, fractured outer shell, the lithosphere that can glide over the underlying asthenosphere are important components of the plate tectonic framework, and therefore, the global distribution of earthquakes. With an introduction to the ideas of plate tectonics and earthquake terminology, this article introduces the significance of the India-Eurasia plate boundary and its seismic productivity. The most active continent-continent collision boundary on the Earth defined by the Himalaya and the Andaman-Sumatra subduction zone are part of this plate boundary. Parts of the Indian continental interior regions are also noted for some destructive earthquakes. This article provides a brief overview of the background processes, terminology, and some highlights on Indian earthquakes studies, and points to academic opportunities in the area of earthquake studies.
Understanding the global relation between Earthquake-Induced Landslides (EQILs) and the factors contributing to their initiation is still an open topic within the geomorphological community. Accessing EQIL inventories and analyzing them concerning their potential causes is the key to explore such relation. However, each of the existing EQIL inventories has its level of completeness and associated uncertainty which makes any unified relationship which is challenging to obtain. So far, the completeness of EQIL inventories has never been clearly defined. As a result, it has never been accounted for in global EQIL predictive models. In this technical note, we propose a simple definition for the completeness of EQIL inventories. We analyze 30 digital EQIL for 21 earthquakes and develop a semi-quantitative method to estimate the completeness level, which we refer to as Completeness Index (CI). The CI results from a combination of topographic factors, ground shaking parameters, and a measure derived from landslide size statistics. The proposed CI consists of Low, Moderate, and High completeness classes which can be used to evaluate any landslide inventory. We made the whole procedure to compute the CI accessible in an ArcGIS toolbox together with a test dataset (see supplementary material).
Ionospheric total electron content (TEC) variations estimated from dual-frequency receivers of global positioning systems (GPS) can be used as a tool to detect possible seismo-ionospheric anomalies before strong earthquakes. In this study, possible seismo-ionospheric anomalies before the 2018 Papua New Guinea earthquake (6.0684 degrees S, 142.7678 degrees E, February 25, 2018, 00:44:43 UTC, Mw=7.5) was investigated by using GPS-TEC variations from four International GNSS Service (IGS) stations (KAT1, TOW2, SOLO and ALIC) near the epicenter and four IGS station (USUD, SHAO, WIND and ZAMB) outside of the EPZ. The earthquake (EQ) is a local phenomenon and space weather conditions (SWCs) are a global phenomenon so that we selected four IGS stations away from the earthquake epicenter, which is at the same latitude and the same longitude with the earthquake to figure out a clear SWCs' effects on the GPS-TEC anomalies. In order to see these effects on ionospheric TEC variations, 10 different SWC indices were used. An analysis of occurrence time and duration of the following conclusions was made: both positive and negative anomalies are ensuing, and earthquake-related ionospheric anomalies revealed that they occurred 1 to 7 days before the associated earthquake. At the end of the study, the potential causes of these results were examined. Analysis results revealed that anomalies occurred, and the possible ionospheric GPS-TEC anomalies may be the earthquake precursors obtained 4 to 9 days before the Papua New Guinea earthquake. The increase in scientific research to analyze the seismo-ionospheric anomalies that occur before earthquakes will become an important warning tool to alert people to the devastating environmental effects of earthquakes.
Since 1967 when DC apparent resistivity observation was carried out in China, there have been 16 times or groups of earthquake of M (S) >= 7.0 occurred within about 400 km from the monitoring stations. The apparent resistivity showed medium-short term continuous changes before 13 times or groups of these earthquakes. The medium-term changes usually lasted for several months to about two years. Apparent resistivity of monitoring arrays placed in different directions at the same station showed anisotropic change related to the maximum principal compressive stress orientation (i.e. P axis). The larger the angle between a monitoring array and the P axis is, the greater the magnitude of change in apparent resistivity is. According to the results from rock physics experiments, resistivity model of cracked rock-soil medium, and fault virtual dislocation model, the changes in apparent resistivity before earthquakes may be related to the seismogenic process through a way of resistivity change caused by medium deformation.
An M6. 9 earthquake occurred at 06 : 34 CST (2017-11-17 22 : 34 GMT) on 18 November 2017 at Mainling prefecture, Nyingchi city, Tibet. This earthquake is located near the northeastern corner of the eastern Himalayan syntaxis where strong crustal shortening and the tectonically rotated deformation occurred. Based on the waveform data recorded by the Nyingchi Array, we applied the waveform matched-filter technique and double difference earthquake location method to analyze the spatial-temporal evolution of early aftershocks following the main shock. We obtained over 10 times more aftershocks than that in the catalog from the China Earthquake Network Center. Our analysis indicates that the aftershocks are mainly distributed in north-west direction, which are located on the Xixingla fault and between the east and west sides of the boundary fault zone north of the Namcha Barwa syntaxis. The fault has the clearly segmental rupture characteristics and the main shock is located in the central part of the aftershock belt. Combined the results of the focal mechanism solutions, we suggest that the seismogenic fault of this event steeply dips to northeast and its segment to the northeast of the main shock's epicenter could be triggered by the main shock. The overall length of the aftershocks is about 50 km along the fault.
Early July 2019, two major earthquakes occurred in the Mojave Desert of California near the city of Ridgecrest and the community of Trona and generated a large dust plume that lingered for days. The earthquakes hit an area endemic forCoccidioides, a soil-borne fungal pathogen that can become airborne when soil is disturbed and typically manifests as a pulmonary disease when inhaled. This study is the first to confirm the presence ofCoccidioidesin soils near Trona using a nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach. First responders to earthquake events, the public, and physicians in the San Joaquin Valley and the Mojave Desert should be informed about the risk of pathogen exposure during and after the time of an earthquake, since there are many fault lines in addition to the large San Andreas Fault and future earthquakes in this region are expected to occur.
Strength, functionality and beauty are the three qualities identifying well designed architecture. For buildings in earthquake-prone countries such as Japan, emphasis on seismic safety frequently leads to the sacrifice of functionality and beauty. Therefore, it is important to develop new structural technologies that can ensure the seismic performance of a building without hampering the pursuit of functionality and beauty. The moment-resisting frame structures widely used for buildings in Japan are likely to experience weak-story collapse. Pin-supported walls, which can effectively enhance the structural story-by-story integrity of a building, were introduced to prevent such an unfavorable failure pattern in the seismic retrofit of an eleven-story building on a university campus in Tokyo, while also greatly aesthetically enhancing the fagade of the building. The slight damage observed and monitoring records of the retrofitted building during the 2011 Tohoku earthquake in Japan demonstrate that the pin-supported walls worked as intended, protecting the building and guaranteeing the safety of its occupants during the earthquake.
To rapidly estimate fatalities following an earthquake and provide adequate emergency response and medical rescue, a suitable model should be developed according to local data and physical conditions. Mainland China is divided into five regions based on the regionalization of tectonic background, seismic activity, and development level. This study develops several earthquake fatality ratio estimation models for different regions using 377 earthquake fatalities and population exposure data from 1951 to 2018 provided by the Mainland China Composite Damaging Earthquake Catalog. The earthquake fatality records are normalized by the Human Development Index to the year 2018 level. Because the fatality records of a few catastrophic events have a negative impact on the regression results of all events, we also develop fatality ratio estimation models, especially for catastrophic earthquakes. Furthermore, we use the recorded fatalities of two example periods to verify the applicability of the fatality ratio estimation models. The results show that more than 85% of estimations are within one order of magnitude compared to the records. Finally, based on the verified model and the normal cumulative distribution method, we also try to determine the earthquake emergency response level. We then perform a rapid estimation of fatalities for the 2019 Changning Ms 5.8 earthquake, obtaining an expected result. The applicability of the proposed model to post-earthquake rapid fatality estimation and disaster assessment of earthquake scenarios is expected to play an important role in future earthquake relief planning and postearthquake rapid emergency response of the Chinese government.
Twenty-seven FHDZ-M15 combined geomagnetic observation systems (each of which is equipped with a fluxgate magnetometer and a proton magnetometer) had been installed in the China geomagnetic network before the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake, during which coseismic disturbances were recorded by 26 fluxgate magnetometer observatories. The geomagnetic disturbances have similar spatial and temporal patterns to seismic waves, except for various delays. Six proton magnetometer observatories recorded coseismic disturbances with very small amplitudes. In addition, fluxgate magnetometers registered large-amplitude disturbances that are likely to have included responses to seismic waves. However, two problems remain unresolved. First, why do these geomagnetic disturbances always arrive later than P waves? Second, why do the geomagnetic disturbances have spatial and temporal directivity similar to the main rupture direction of the earthquake? Solving these two problems may be crucial to find the mechanism responsible for generating these geomagnetic anomalies.
The earthquake prediction problem can be defined as given a minimum Richter magnitude scale and a specified geographic region, predicting the possibility of an earthquake in that region within a time interval. This is a long-time studied research problem but not much progress is achieved until the last decade. With the advancement of computational systems and deep learning models, significant results are achieved. In this study, we introduce novel models using the structural recurrent neural network (SRNN) that capture the spatial proximity and structural properties such as the existence of faults in regions. Experimental results are carried out using two distinct regions such as Turkey and China where the scale and earthquake zones differ greatly. SRNN models achieve better performance results compared with the baseline and the state-of-the-art models. Especially the SRNNClass(near) model, that captures the first-order spatial neighborhood and structural classification based on fault lines, results in the highest F-1 score.
An earthquake is a sudden, rapid shaking of the ground caused by the shifting of the Earth's tectonic plates. Earthquakes pose serious threats that cause economic losses and casualties. To mitigate such risks, it is crucial to better understand earthquakes through data-driven analysis. In this paper, we propose an approach to time series analysis over earthquake data, consisting of two steps: exploration and prediction. The exploration step relies on exploratory data analysis (EDA) comprising descriptive statistics and data visualization, whereas the prediction step focuses on how to predict the number of earthquakes for the following years. We perform our time series analysis using various machine learning techniques over a global earthquake dataset from 1965-2016 and report insights as well as lessons learned from the study.
Earthquake light, emerging from the ground as flashes at night (neglecting other more minor forms), usually has a white hemispherical center and blue outer part. The blue resembles daytime blue sky. Its existence is increasingly verified, with about 80 videos on the web to mid-2017. However, the light must be differentiated from power-grid faults, so sound/color/form/length criteria were developed in this paper through examination of many videos. Light should be coseismic (i.e. when the S-waves arrive), hemispherical, not during a storm, less than 1 s long, without fire or smoke, and without many rapid color changes. Warnings about camera artifacts are included. This light accompanied two recent earthquakes: M7.8 November 14, 2016, New Zealand, and M8.1 September 8, 2017, Mexico. Definite green flash earthquake light has only been caught once on video and it is shown that others are sometimes electrical overload of mercury vapor lamps, or difficulty with classifying pale turquoise flashes that are only slightly more green than blue. Three separate frames from videos (NZ, turkey, and Ecuador) have views actually within the blue light. These data exemplify the Freund principle of positive charge production from quartz by high stress-rate, then charge separation and expulsion to the ground surface and creation of light, but the hypotheses of quartz piezoelectricity or voltages from fracture mechanisms are not accepted.
Operational earthquake forecasting for risk management and communication during seismic sequences depends on our ability to select an optimal forecasting model. To do this, we need to compare the performance of competing models in prospective experiments, and to rank their performance according to the outcome using a fair, reproducible and reliable method, usually in a low-probability environment. The Collaboratory for the Study of Earthquake Predictability conducts prospective earthquake forecasting experiments around the globe. In this framework, it is crucial that the metrics used to rank the competing forecasts are 'proper', meaning that, on average, they prefer the data generating model. We prove that the Parimutuel Gambling score, proposed, and in some cases applied, as a metric for comparing probabilistic seismicity forecasts, is in general 'improper'. In the special case where it is proper, we show it can still be used improperly. We demonstrate the conclusions both analytically and graphically providing a set of simulation based techniques that can be used to assess if a score is proper or not. They only require a data generating model and, at least two forecasts to be compared. We compare the Parimutuel Gambling score's performance with two commonly used proper scores (the Brier and logarithmic scores) using confidence intervals to account for the uncertainty around the observed score difference. We suggest that using confidence intervals enables a rigorous approach to distinguish between the predictive skills of candidate forecasts, in addition to their rankings. Our analysis shows that the Parimutuel Gambling score is biased, and the direction of the bias depends on the forecasts taking part in the experiment. Our findings suggest the Parimutuel Gambling score should not be used to distinguishing between multiple competing forecasts, and for care to be taken in the case where only two arc being compared.
The seismic assessment of the vulnerability of existing public structures, especially school buildings, is a crucial issue in seismic prone countries. Recently, several national and regional programs and activities have focussed on the mitigation of Italian public buildings. They promote the scheduling of public buildings' structural safety assessment and, when needed, the design and execution of strengthening interventions. Nevertheless, the three strong earthquakes that occurred in the last decade in Italy, Abruzzo (2009), Emilia (2012), and Central Italy (2016), confirmed the vulnerability of school buildings and the social importance of their quick re-opening after a damaging earthquake. In the present paper, the activities carried out on 1514 school building structures in the aftermath of the 2016 Central Italy earthquake sequence are reported and analysed. According to survey data collected by post-earthquake usability inspections, the paper analyses the school buildings characteristics, damage level and extent to structural and non-structural components as well as the correlation between seismic intensity and observed damage.
The 2017 Puebla, Mexico, earthquake event led to significant damage in many buildings in Mexico City. In the months following the earthquake, civil engineering students conducted detailed building assessments throughout the city. They collected building damage information and structural characteristics for 340 buildings in the Mexico City urban area, with an emphasis on the Roma and Condesa neighborhoods where they assessed 237 buildings. These neighborhoods are of particular interest due to the availability of seismic records captured by nearby recording stations, and preexisting information from when the neighborhoods were affected by the 1985 Michoacan earthquake. This article presents a case study on developing a damage prediction model using machine learning. It details a framework suitable for working with future post-earthquake observation data. Four algorithms able to perform classification tasks were trialed. Random forest, the best performing algorithm, achieves more than 65% prediction accuracy. The study of the feature importance for the random forest shows that the building location, seismic demand, and building height are the parameters that influence the model output the most.
The focal depths of four great earthquakes in Himalaya lie below the Main Himalayan thrust (MHT).The region between the 1905 Kangra earthquake and 1934 Bihar Nepal earthquake, termed as Central Seismic Gap (CSG). The micro-earthquakes of this region are primarily shallow focus having low stress drop values and dominantly of thrust mechanism. Analysis of P- wave spectra yields seismic moments in the range of 2.40x10e11 to 4.23x10e14 Nm. The locations and characteristics of seismicity reveals that the region above the detachment continues to release energy in the form of smaller magnitude earthquakes while the strain is continuously accumulating at the ramp or the zone below the plane of detachment. In this region the accumulated strain energy is enough to generate a great earthquake. The seismicity of Garhwal-Kumaun in CSG has been observed in a narrow zone south of Main Central Thrust. It has two prominent clusters, one near Uttarkashi, and the other at near Chamoli. Frictional coefficient worked out near the Chamoli region is low, and it suggests the presence of fluids near detachment below the Chamoli region. Keeping this in view, the stress release in the M7.8 Nepal earthquake (2015) and the current seismicity in CSG, it is suggested that the Chamoli region could be the probable source zone for energy release.
We used data from >100 permanent and temporary seismic stations to investigate seismicity patterns related to the 1 April 2014 M8.1 Iquique earthquake in northern Chile. Applying a multistage automatic event location procedure to the seismic data, we detected and located 19,000 foreshocks, aftershocks, and background seismicity for 1 month preceding and 9 months following the mainshock. Foreshocks skirt around the updip limit of the mainshock asperity; aftershocks occur mainly in two belts updip and downdip of it. The updip seismicity primarily locates in a zone of transitional friction on the megathrust and can be explained by preseismic stress loading due to slow-slip processes and afterslip driven by increased Coulomb failure stress due to the mainshock and its largest aftershock. Afterslip further south also triggered aftershocks and repeating earthquakes in several EW striking streaks. We interpret the streaks as markers of surrounding creep that could indicate a change in fault mechanics and may have structural origin, caused by fluid-induced failure along presumed megathrust corrugations. Megathrust aftershocks terminate updip below the seaward frontal prism in the outer continental wedge that probably behaves aseismically under velocity-strengthening conditions. The inner wedge locates further landward overlying the megathrust's seismogenic zone. Further downdip, aftershocks anticorrelate with the two major afterslip patches resolved geodetically and partially correlate with increased Coulomb failure stress, overall indicating heterogeneous frictional behavior. A region of sparse seismicity at 40- to 50-km depth is followed by the deepest plate interface aftershocks at 55- to 65-km depth, which occur in two clusters of significantly different dip.
The 14th November 2016 Kaikoura earthquake was one of the most complex crustal earthquakes recorded in the modern era. The rupture propagated northward for more than 170 km along both mapped and unmapped faults causing widespread damage across central New Zealand. Field, Satellite Radar and GPS observations revealed ground displacements of up to 6 m (fault offsets of similar to 12 m), extensive coastal uplift and large scale anelastic deformation including the similar to 10 m uplift of a fault-bounded block.In the aftermath of the earthquake, slip models have estimated as much as 25 m of slip at depth along with the potential co-seismic rupture of the southern Hikurangi subduction interface. From the complex network of faults, exhibiting a variety of slip kinematics, to the large co-seismic slip, this earthquake has challenged our assumptions about fault segmentation in multi fault ruptures with important implications for seismic hazard. Following the earthquake, studies from multiple national and international groups have started to unravel some of the earthquakes complexities. Here I will present a broad overview of the current findings and discuss some of the ongoing debates and questions which have yet to be resolved.
Earthquakes can generate large volumes of debris which may threaten public health, hinder reconstruction and impact the environment. The present paper aims at investigating how the current Italian regulatory framework may be further developed to improve communities' ability to manage debris from earthquakes. Since the lack of preparedness for managing disaster debris is not confined to Italy, the paper may be valuable to stimulate a broader debate on this issue. The research work is based on selected case studies (L'Aquila 2009, Regione Emilia-Romagna-Circolare n. 2 of 12.06.2012 (2012) Provisions for the resumption of production activities according to art. 3 paragraphs 7 to 10 of Legislative Decree June 6, 2012 n. 74 and Central Italy 2016-2017 earthquakes) and the review of the relevant literature and legislation. It shows that preparedness could have contributed to reducing or avoiding significant delays and problems in managing debris after the above-mentioned Italian earthquakes. It further suggests that disaster debris management in Italy could benefit from the existence of a comprehensive ex ante regulatory framework including a range of different tools (laws, guidelines, contingency plans and the like) and from the proper implementation of laws that are already part of our legal order. The above findings may directly feed into decision-making addressing disaster debris management. Overall, the paper focuses on a research topic which is becoming increasingly relevant, given the rise in the number and severity of natural disasters, but which is still not widely explored.
A hypothesis is proposed to explain the relationship between the number of earthquakes and geographical latitude. Analysis of ultra-deep well drilling results showed that the boundaries of seismic wave reflection that were taken beyond the boundary between the granite and basalt layers were actually related to the rock decompression zone due to increased porosity and microcracking in the main granite layer. These cracks allow water to penetrate the rocks while being compressed and heated at the same time. Calculations show that at a depth of 30 km the temperature should be 460 degrees, and at 42 kilometers (at the base of the Earth 's crust) - already 580 degrees. The pressure at these depths is 3000 and 4200 atmospheres, respectively. When the temperature reaches 374.3 degrees Celsius and 221 atmospheres, the water changes to a supercritical state. In this state, water has special properties, in particular, increased solubility of various substances and high oxidative capacity. It mixes freely with oxygen, hydrogen, and hydrocarbons. Even with a small change in pressure and temperature, complete dissolution or, conversely, precipitation of oxides and salts can occur. The pressure required to achieve the supercritical state is already reached at a depth of 2.2 kilometers. The required temperature is reached at depths of 20-25 kilometers. However, in areas of magmatic hearths, this temperature can be reached at significantly lesser depths. The dissolution of rocks can lead to the formation of cavities like karst, the collapse of the arches of which leads to the collapse of large arrays of rocks with the formation of new cavities over the filled-in cavity, leading to the formation of sub-vertical clusters of earthquake hypocenters, called seismic nails. At the same time, a Coriolis force proportional to the cosine of latitude must act on the water moving underground. The distribution of the centers of strong earthquakes shows a more sharp decrease in their latitude, proportional to the third degree of the cosine of latitude. These calculations show that the number of earthquakes correlates fairly well with the cubic root of latitude. An additional factor, which also depends on latitude, may be the increase in rock treadiness, which increases towards the equator in proportion to the square of latitude, reducing rock resistance to fluid movement and resulting in an increase in the speed of movement of the rocks.
We present a robust factorization of the teleseismic waveforms resulting from an earthquake source into signals that originate from the source and signals that characterize the path effects. The extracted source signals represent the earthquake spectrum, and its variation with azimuth. Unlike most prior work on source extraction, our method is data-driven, and it does not depend on any path-related assumptions, for example, the empirical Green's function. Instead, our formulation involves focused blind deconvolution (FBD), which associates the source characteristics with the similarity among a multitude of recorded signals. We also introduce a new spectral attribute, to be called redshift, which is based on the Fraunhofer approximation. Redshift describes source-spectrum variation, where a decrease in high-frequency content occurs at the receiver in the direction opposite to unilateral rupture propagation. Using the redshift, we identified unilateral ruptures during two recent strike-slip earthquakes. The FBD analysis of an earthquake, which originated in the eastern California shear zone, is consistent with observations from local seismological or geodetic instrumentation.
Taiwan that is located at the junction of the Eurasian Plate and the Philippine Sea Plate is one of the most active seismic zones in the world. Devastating earthquakes have occurred around the island and have caused severe damages from time to time. To avoid the severe loss, earthquake early warning (EEW) is of great importance, and one of the most critical issues of EEW is fast and reliable detection for the presence of earthquakes. Traditional methods for earthquake detection usually use criterion-based algorithms to detect the onset of the earthquake waves. Currently, the thresholds for those criteria are usually decided empirically and may result in excessive false alarms. Obviously, false alarms can cause undue panics and diminish the credibility of the system. In this article, the recurrent neural network (RNN) models are adopted to develop a real-time EEW system. The developed system is designed to identify the occurrence of an earthquake event, and the duration of the P-wave and the S-wave. It was trained and tested using the seismograms recorded in Taiwan from 2016 to 2017. From the simulation results, the proposed scheme outperforms the traditional criterion-based schemes in terms of detection accuracy and processing time.
Constraining the seismotectonic faulting that occurred as a result of the 2016 Mw 6.0 Hutubi earthquake provides valuable information about the deformation in the northern Tien Shan region. However, due to the lack of surface rupturing and high quality near-field teleseismic data, the exact nature of the faulting remains controversial. In our study, we analyze the coseismic strain time series of the Mw 6.0 Hutubi earthquake using strain data collected from nearby borehole stations. The tensile and compressive coseismic strain steps account for most of the recorded borehole data in this region. Employing a numerical model that is based on elastic dislocation theory, we reproduce the observed tensile and compressive coseismic strain steps using source parameters that were generated through seismic wave inversion, seismic reflection data, and aftershock relocation. By conducting a comparative analysis between the predicted and observed coseismic strain steps, we study the seismogenic faulting of the Mw 6.0 Hutubi earthquake. The results indicate that when the source parameters are 292 degrees/62 degrees/80 degrees (strike/dip/rake), the predicted tensile and compressive characteristics for 13/16 channels are consistent with the observational data. Based on these results, we infer that the seismogenic faulting, which is located near the Horgos-Manas-Tugulu fault, can be characterized as a high-angle blind back-thrust fault with a north-dipping fault plane. Providing constraints on the seismogenic faulting associated with the 2016 Mw 6.0 Hutubi earthquake also yields to understand the mechanism of the overall deformation pattern in the northern Tien Shan region.
Soil liquefaction can cause excessive damage to structures as witnessed in many recent earthquakes. The damage to small/medium-sized buildings can lead to excessive death toll and economic losses due to the sheer number of such buildings. Economic and sustainable methods to mitigate liquefaction damage to such buildings are therefore required. In this paper, the use of rubble brick as a material to construct earthquake drains is proposed. The efficacy of these drains to mitigate liquefaction effects was investigated, for the first time to include the effects of the foundations of a structure by using dynamic centrifuge testing. It will be shown that performance of the foundation in terms of its settlement was improved by the rubble brick drains by directly comparing them to the foundation on unimproved, liquefiable ground. The dynamic response in terms of horizontal accelerations and rotations will be compared. The dynamic centrifuge tests also yielded valuable information with regard to the excess pore pressure variation below the foundations both spatially and temporally. Differences of excess pore pressures between the improved and unimproved ground will be compared. Finally, a simplified 3D finite element analysis will be introduced that will be shown to satisfactorily capture the settlement characteristics of the foundation located on liquefiable soil with earthquake drains.
We investigated changes in the b value of the Gutenberg-Richter's law in and around the focal areas of earthquakes on March 20 and on May 1, 2021, with magnitude (M) 6.9 and 6.8, respectively, which occurred off the Pacific coast of Miyagi prefecture, northeastern Japan. We showed that the b value in these focal areas had been noticeably small, especially within a few years before the occurrence of the M6.9 earthquake in its vicinity, indicating that differential stress had been high in the focal areas. The coseismic slip of the 2011 Tohoku earthquake seems to have stopped just short of the east side of the focus of the M6.9 earthquake. Furthermore, the afterslip of the 2011 Tohoku earthquake was relatively small in the focal areas of the M6.9 and M6.8 earthquakes, compared to the surrounding regions. In addition, the focus of the M6.9 earthquake was situated close to the border point where the interplate slip in the period from 2012 through 2021 has been considerably larger on the northern side than on the southern side. The high-stress state inferred by the b-value analysis is concordant with those characteristics of interplate slip events. We found that the M6.8 earthquake on May 1 occurred near an area where the b value remained small, even after the M6.9 quake. The ruptured areas by the two earthquakes now seem to almost coincide with the small-b-value region that had existed before their occurrence. The b value on the east side of the focal areas of the M6.9 and M6.8 earthquakes which corresponds to the eastern part of the source region of the 1978 off-Miyagi prefecture earthquake was consistently large, while the seismicity enhanced by the two earthquakes also shows a large b value, implying that stress in the region has not been very high.
More than 6,000 people died in the Great Hanshin (Kobe) Earthquake in 1995, and it was later reported that there were around 500 preventable trauma deaths. In response, the Japanese government developed the helicopter emergency medical service in 2001, known in Japan as the Doctor-Heli (DH), which had 46 DHs and 2 private medical helicopters as of April 2016. DHs transport physicians and nurses to provide pre-hospital medical care at the scene of medical emergencies. Following lessons learned in the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, a research group in the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare developed a command and control system for the DH fleet as well as the Disaster Relief Aircraft Management System Network (D-NET), which uses a satellite communications network to monitor the location of the fleet and weather in real-time during disasters. During the Kumamoto Earthquake disaster in April 2016, 75 patients were transported by 13 DHs and 1 private medical helicopter in the first 5 days. When medical demand for the DHs exceeded supply, 5 patients, 8 patients, and 1 patient were transported by Self-Defense Force, Fire Department, and Coast Guard helicopters, respectively. Of the 89 patients who were transported, 30 (34%) had trauma, 3 (3%) had pulmonary embolisms caused by sleeping in vehicles, and 17 (19%) were pregnant women or new-borns. This was the first time that the command and control system for aeromedical transport and D-NET, established after the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, were operated in an actual large-scale disaster. Aeromedical transport by DHs and helicopters belonging to several other organizations was accomplished smoothly because the commanders of the involved organizations could communicate directly with each other in person within the Aviation Coordination Section of the prefectural government office. However, ongoing challenges in the detailed operating methods for aeromedical transport were highlighted and include improving shared knowledge and training across the organizational framework. These are particularly important issues to address given the Nankai Trough and Tokyo inland earthquakes that are predicted for the near future in Japan.
This paper investigates the usefulness of a semiactive control to reduce the overturning vulnerability of a rigid block on a rigid plane under earthquake excitation. The proposed feedback law is used to set the stiffness of restraints placed at the 2 lower corners of the block. The performance of the semiactive control is numerically validated by subjecting the block to 100 recorded accelerograms. Specific simulations are performed to study the effect of different anchorage design parameters on the utility of the control. Finally, the robustness of the proposed control is addressed with respect to typical issues of the real-world implementation.
Oklahoma experienced three earthquakes of M(w)5.0 or greater in 2016: the 13-Feb. Fairview earthquake (M(w)5.1), the 03-Sep. Pawnee earthquake (M(w)5.8), and the 07-Nov. Cushing earthquake (M(w)5.0). These events are the first earthquakes in the state exceeding M(w)5.0 since the 2011 M(w)5.7 Prague earthquake and likely result from wide scale deep fluid-injection. We use interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR) observations to quantify the magnitude and location of surface deformation associated with these three events, determine the depth ranges of fault slip, and assess the spatial relationship between fault slip and well-calibrated mainshock and aftershock locations. We also include newly reported, calibrated event locations for the Cushing earthquake. We find that the Pawnee earthquake ruptured within the crystalline basement with the shallowest slip occurring at depths of 3.1-4.3 km. We find a similar, though shallower, crystalline basement source for the Cushing earthquake with a minimum depth to slip of 1.6-2.3 km. Despite the smaller magnitude of the Cushing earthquake, it generated anomalously high ground motions and damage compared to the larger Pawnee and Fairview earthquakes. We postulate that the shallow source of the Cushing earthquakes provides one explanation for the higher than expected ground motions. The Fairview earthquake generated no detectable co-seismic displacements, which is consistent with a relatively deep earthquake source (similar to 8.5 km). We do, however, identify a 16 km stretch of floodplain where widespread liquefaction occurred in response to the Fairview earthquake, and where 30 gas production wells were exposed to surface displacements exceeding 5 cm. Consequently, the depth to crystalline basement, which limits the depth of injection-induced earthquakes in Oklahoma, and the potential for liquefaction are important factors in assessing shaking risk in the central United States.
An earthquake of M(w)6.4 occurred in Pishan County in Xinjiang Province, northwestern Tibetan Plateau, on July 3, 2015. The epicenter was located on an active blind thrust system located at the northern margin of the Western Kunlun Mountain Orogenic Belt southwest of the Tarim Basin. We constructed a shovel-shaped fault model based on the layered-crust model with reference to the seismic reflection profile, and obtained the rupture process of the earthquake from the joint inversion of Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR) measurements, far-field waveform data, and Global Positioning System (GPS) data. The results show that the seismic fault dips southward with a strike of 109 degrees, and the rupture direction was essentially northward. The fault plane rupture distribution is concentrated, with a maximum recorded slip of 73 cm. The main features of the fault are as follows: low inclination angle (25 degrees-10 degrees), thrust slip at a depth of 9-13 km, rupture propagation time of about 12 s, no significant slip in soft or hard sedimentary layers at 0-4 km depth and propagation from the initial rupture point to the surrounding area with no obvious directionality. The InSAR time-series analysis method is used to determine the deformation rate in the source region within 2 years after the earthquake, and the maximum value is similar to 17 mm yr(-1) in the radar line-of-sight direction. Obvious post-earthquake deformation is evident in the hanging wall, with a similar trend to the coseismic displacement field. These results suggest that the Pishan earthquake has not completely released the accumulated energy of the region, given that the multilayer fold structure above the blind fault is still in a process of slow uplift since the earthquake. Post-earthquake adjustment models and aftershock risk analysis require further study using more independent data.
Based on field investigations, interpretations of high-resolution UAV images, and analyses of available InSAR data, we mapped the fault geometry and surface ruptures of the 2021 M-w 7.4 Maduo earthquake that occurred on a low-activity strike-slip fault within the Tibetan Plateau. The results indicate that (a) the earthquake activated a fault that is similar to 161 km long and has complicated structural geometry; (b) the surface rupture occurs over a distance of 148 km, but is separated into three distinct segments by two large gaps (38 and 20 km, respectively); (c) within the surface-rupture segments, the horizontal and vertical displacements are typically 0.2-2.6 m (much lower than the InSAR-based slip maximum of 2-6 m at depth) and <= 0.4 m, respectively. The two large gaps of the Maduo surface rupture represent the two largest surface-rupture discontinuities of strike-slip earthquakes ever documented, and coincide with structurally complicated fault portions and near-surface soft sediments.
We develop three-dimensional finite element models incorporating a subducting India slab to investigate the dynamic mechanisms of postseismic deformation processes following the 2015 Mw 7.8 Gorkha earthquake based on nearly 5 years of GPS data in Nepal and southern Tibet. At first, we explore two simple models that consider viscoelastic relaxation and stress-driven afterslip as the individual mechanism, and find that single mechanism cannot fully explain the observations holistically. Therefore, we then present a combined model that simultaneously resolves the trade-off of individual contributions from viscoelastic relaxation and afterslip by evaluating the misfit between the simulated and observed time series. The preferred combined model reproduces the postseismic deformation associated with the Gorkha earthquake and indicates that near- to intermediate-field postseismic displacements are mainly caused by aseismic slip on the downdip of the coseismic rupture, while the far-field deformation is dominated by viscoelastic relaxation in the lower crust and upper mantle of the southern Tibet. The steady-state viscosity of the lower crust in the southern Tibet is estimated to be 3 x 1018 Pa s, corresponding transient-state viscosity is 3 x 1017 Pa s. The best-fit combined model suggests that approximately 90% afterslip was released in the first 4 years and corresponding frictional parameter a sigma = 0.15 MPa. Additionally, we find the afterslip fringing the downdip of the coseismic rupture plays an important role in the trade-off between near- and intermediate-field displacements. Afterslip deficit in the shallow part of the Main Himalayan Thrust indicates the potential seismic hazard on the south and west of Kathmandu in future.
This year marks the 150th birthday anniversary of the outstanding seismologist Fusakichi Omori. Our paper is devoted to this significant event. We found that the well-known Omori law may be represented in the form of a differential equation describing the evolution of aftershocks. This allows us to formulate the inverse problem of physics of the earthquake source which is cooling down after the main shock. The paper gives the examples of solving the inverse problem and illustrates a possibility to create the atlas of aftershocks after a series of strong earthquakes. The atlas contains a description of the parameters, the original sequence of aftershocks, and the so-called deactivation function for each event. The analysis of the atlas showed a rich variety of the evolution forms of the earthquake source after the main shock.
In April 2013, a 7.0 Mw earthquake struck along the Longmen Shan fault in the city of Ya'an, Sichuan Province, China, causing serious damage. The invaluable contributions of the non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in dealing with this disaster highlighted the significance of government-NGO relationships in post-disaster reconstruction and the effect this has on the efficiency and quality of post-disaster reconstruction. This paper examines government-NGO relationships (GNR) in the post-Lushan earthquake period as a multi-stakeholder collaborative problem based on organizational lifecycle perspectives through the birth, growth, stability, and saturation stages. Two-year field research was conducted in the affected areas which identified the GNR as a bridged government-NGO relationship (BGNR) during the reconstruction period, with the Ya'an service center acting as the bridging organization. The BGNR's experience was compared to the previous Wenchuan earthquake, and the general BGNR post-disaster reconstruction situation is discussed on two dimensions: mutuality and organizational identity.
Posttraumatic growth (PTG) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptoms were examined for a sample of 256 Haitians after they were exposed to the 2010 earthquake. Participants completed a survey containing measures of PTSD and PTG. A bivariate correlation analysis indicated a positive relationship between PTG and PTSD symptoms and an inverse relationship between PTG and the experience of the earthquake. A t-test analysis showed that females had significantly higher scores on PTSD symptoms compared to their male counterparts. However, no significant gender differences were found on the participants' mean scores for PTG. Researchers and mental health professionals should not only focus on the negative but also the positive outcomes of natural disasters.
The western Corinth Gulf, one of the most seismically active areas in Greece with frequent earthquake sequences and a dense seismological network, is an ideal region for investigating the properties of earthquake clusters. We study 47 earthquake clusters identified using a high-resolution earthquake catalog and the CURATE clustering algorithm. Based on the skewness and kurtosis of their moment release history, 31 sequences are successfully distinguished as earthquake swarms and 13 as mainshock-aftershock sequences (three sequences could not be classified). The relationship between skewness and kurtosis leads to a parabola where mainshock aftershock sequences are located to the right part (high values of skewness and kurtosis), whereas earthquake swarms to the center left (low values of skewness and kurtosis). This discrimination is validated by taking into consideration the occurrence time of the largest event in the sequence, as well as the difference in magnitude between the largest event and other larger events. Twelve clusters, which consist of several burst-like repeaters, show evidence of fluid driven activity with diffusivity ranging from 0.5 to 1.8 m(2)/s for the triggering front and 0.1 to 0.4 m(2)/s for the back front. The observed temporal evolution of earthquake swarms compared to that expected from the ETAS stochastic model shows that they have distinct values for the model parameters alpha and mu. Finally, interevent time distributions for four clusters having at least 100 events show that a Lognormal distribution fits best in all cases, suggesting a degree of triggering between subsequent events.
We relocate earthquakes occurring 1week before and 1month after the 2016 Yunlong Ms5.0 earthquake by simultaneously using P (and S) travel times and waveform cross-correlation data in the double-difference relocation algorithm. We then use the well-relocated earthquakes as template events and scan through the continuous waveforms to search for and locate weak events by using the match and locate method. A total of 4602 events are detected by using 660 templates, which is similar to 3 times the number of events listed in the Yunnan Seismic Networks catalogue. Our refined catalogue reveals three stages of seismic activity and energy release processes during the 2016 Yunlong Ms5.0 earthquake sequence. We also refine the focal depths and mechanisms of 12M3.0 earthquakes using the broadband waveform modeling method. Both the relocated hypocenters and focal mechanisms of the 12M3.0 earthquakes delineate fault strike and dip angles of similar to 200 degrees and similar to 75 degrees, respectively, indicating that the seismogenic fault could be a NNE-striking blind or subfault located between the Weixi-Qiaohou Fault and Lancangjiang Fault. Our results could contribute to better understanding of local seismic hazard evaluations in the vicinity of Yunlong area of Yunnan, China.
Throughout history, earthquakes have caused devastation and loss of life. Emergency medical services (EMS) plays a vital role in the response to any mass-casualty incident or disaster. Magen David Adom, Israel's premier EMS organization, has a unique strategy known as the ABC approach to earthquake response. It involves thousands of salaried workers and trained volunteers who are prepared to respond to an earthquake based on the extent of the disaster. Depending on the amount of destruction, they will be working locally or available to help in other areas. A Level A earthquake causes local destruction and minimal casualties. Any EMS responders in that area as well as in surrounding areas will be available to help. Furthermore, all responders will need to work automatically and autonomously. A Level B earthquake causes extensive destruction, and all responders in the region will be busy caring for the victims. Anyone available outside of the region will come and help. A Level C earthquake is completely devastating, and all workers nationwide will be involved in responding to the catastrophe. The role of EMS responders using the ABC approach to earthquake response, as described here, may be integrated in part or whole in other EMS systems.
This study is carried out based on field investigation data obtained over more than 20 days after the 20 April 2013 Lushan M(s)7.0 earthquake in Sichuan Province, China. The investigation includes detailed seismic damage data from 3,684 buildings in 428 districts. This research summarizes the seismic characteristics of buildings with different structures in this area and systematically analyzes the cause of damage. Based on this analysis, the seismic vulnerability of various structural forms in different intensity regions is systematically assessed. The damage characteristics are summarized for several types of the structures typical in the region: constrained masonry structures designed following current standards, unengineered constrained masonry structures, unreinforced masonry structures, brick-wood structures, brick-concrete structure, traditional Chinese timber frame structures, reinforced concrete frame structures, tall buildings, and industrial plants. Moreover, the causes of damage to these structures are investigated. Furthermore, through statistical analysis, this study develops a vulnerability matrix for the main building types and compares their vulnerabilities of similar buildings in regions with different earthquake intensities. The research results provide an important reference for earthquake engineers to recognize failure modes in different types of structures (especially those reconstructed after the Wenchuan earthquake, Sichuan Province, China), revise seismic design codes, and formulate future disaster-reduction plans.
We present an adaptive multistart Gauss-Newton approach (AMGNA) to inverse earthquake source parameters with multiple geodetic data sets. The AMGNA can be combined with uniform and nonuniform sampling schemes to generate initial parameters. The AMGNA searches for the improved solution with an adaptively determined number of initial parameters based on a given stable level represented by a target probability; this process involves a first-order approximate uncertainty calculation and performs a joint inversion involved variance component estimation. We test the efficiency and reliability of the AMGNA with synthetic global positioning system and interferometric synthetic aperture radar data and apply the proposed approach to the 2009 Mw 6.3 L'Aquila earthquake and 2017 Mw 6.6 Bodrum-Kos earthquake. The results show that the AMGNA can retrieve well the designed source parameters by several simulated cases and estimate source parameters and uncertainties comparable to those of previous studies for real applications. The AMGNA can quickly estimate the source parameters and uncertainties within 0.5-25 min using six processes in parallel computing. Considering the easily implemented property of the nonuniform sampling scheme, our algorithm has potential applications in the fast and automatic inversion of earthquake source parameters.
A physics-based numerical approach is used to characterize earthquake ground motion due to induced seismicity in the Groningen gas field and to improve empirical ground motion models for seismic hazard and risk assessment. To this end, a large-scale (20 km x 20 km) heterogeneous 3D seismic wave propagation model for the Groningen area is constructed, based on the significant bulk of available geological, geophysical, geotechnical, and seismological data. Results of physics-based numerical simulations are validated against the ground motion recordings of the January 8, 2018, M-L 3.4 Zeerijp earthquake. Taking advantage of suitable models of slip time functions at the seismic source and of the detailed geophysical model, the numerical simulations are found to reproduce accurately the observed features of ground motions at epicentral distances less than 10 km, in a broad frequency range, up to about 8 Hz. A sensitivity analysis is also addressed to discuss the impact of 3D underground geological features, the stochastic variability of seismic velocities and the frequency dependence of the quality factor. Amongst others, results point out some key features related to 3D seismic wave propagation, such as the magnitude and distance dependence of site amplification functions, that may be relevant to the improvement of the empirical models for earthquake ground motion prediction.
The 2018M(W)7.5 Papua New Guinea earthquake is the largest earthquake instrumentally recorded in the Papuan Fold Belt since 1900. Based on a combined analysis of backprojection imaging and finite-fault joint inversion, we determined a complex spatiotemporal rupture model of the mainshock. During the rupture process, three major asperities were ruptured successively with relatively low rupture velocities ranging from 1.9 to 2.3 km/s. The spatiotemporal evolution of the imparted Coulomb stress indicates that the rupture of the preceding asperity played an important role in triggering the delayed rupture of the adjacent asperity. Based on our rupture model, the upper bound of the radiation efficiency of this event is estimated to be 9.7-12.3%, a relatively low value, indicating that this earthquake is extremely dissipative. The high energy dissipation implies that the 2018M(W)7.5 Papua New Guinea earthquake may be controlled by the immature seismogenic environment.
Objective: To find out the relationship between psychological preparedness and anxiety of the elderly in earthquake prone areas. Method: The design in this study uses quantitative descriptive correlation with a cross sectional approach with a sample of 355. The sampling method used is Multistage Random Sampling. The questionnaire used in this study has passed reliability and validity test. Univariate and bivariate data analysis were conducted. Result: The results of the study also showed there is a relationship between psychological preparedness and anxiety in the elderly in earthquake prone areas (p=0.039). Conclusion: The results of this study prove the research related interventions that can be done to improve psychological preparedness and reduce anxiety. (C) 2020 Elsevier Espana, S.L.U. All rights reserved.
Ground response analyses (GRA) model the vertical propagations of SH waves through flat-layered media (1DSH) and are widely carried out to evaluate local site effects in practice. Horizontal-to-vertical spectral ratio (HVSR) technique is a cost-effective approach to extract certain site-specific information, e.g., site fundamental frequency (f(0)), but HVSR values cannot be directly used to approximate the levels of S-wave amplifications. Motivated by the work of Kawase et al. (2019), we propose a procedure to correct earthquake HVSR amplitudes for direct amplification estimations. The empirical correction compensates HVSR by generic vertical amplification spectra categorized by the vertical fundamental frequency (f(0v)) via kappa-means clustering. In this investigation, we evaluate the effectiveness of the corrected HVSR in approximating observed linear amplifications in comparison with 1DSH modellings. We select a total of 90 KiK-net (Kiban Kyoshin network) surface-downhole sites which are found to have no velocity contrasts below their boreholes and thus of which surface-to-borehole spectral ratios (SBSRs) can be taken as their empirical transfer functions (ETFs). 1DSH-based theoretical transfer functions (TTFs) are computed in the linear domain considering uncertainties in Vs profiles through randomizations. Five goodness-of-fit metrics are adopted to gauge the closeness between observed (ETF) and predicted (i.e., TTF and corrected HVSR) amplifications in both amplitude and spectral shape over frequencies from f(0) to 25 Hz. We find that the empirical correction to HVSR is highly effective and achieves a good match in both spectral shape and amplitude at the majority of the 90 KiK-net sites, as opposed to less than one-third for the 1DSH modelling. In addition, the empirical correction does not require a velocity model, which GRAs require, and thus has great potentials in seismic hazard assessments.
The earthquake is considered one of the most devastating disasters in any area of the world due to its potentially destructive force. Based on the various earthquake-related parameters, the risk assessment is enabled in advance to prevent future earthquake disasters. In this paper, for providing the shelter space demands to reduce the damage level and prevention costs, an earthquake risk assessment approach is proposed for deriving the risk index based on multiple spatial parameters in the gridded map. The proposed assessment approach is comprised of pre-processing, methodology model, and data visualization. The risk index model derives the earthquake risk index by multiple spatial parameters including indexes of earthquake, danger, shelter, and building for blocks in the quantitative gridded map. The parameters are provided based on mathematical models and combined with the risk index that presents the earthquake risk assessment result for each block. Therefore, the gridding approach is proposed to provide the elements of the risk assessment area that are used in the spatial parameters. The gridded map is developed for the selected area to visualize risk index parameters associated with each risk zone. Based on the derived result of the proposed earthquake risk index model, emergency shelter requirements are provided according to the risk index for each location, which supports safety measures in advance to prevent future earthquake disasters.
Emergency departments (EDs) provide health care services to people in need of urgent care. Their role is remarkable when extraordinary events that affect the public, such as earthquakes, occur. In this paper, we present a hybrid framework to evaluate earthquake preparedness of EDs in cities. Our hybrid framework uses artificial neural networks (ANNs) to estimate number of casualties and discrete event simulation (DES) to analyse the effect of surge in patient demand in EDs, after an earthquake happens. At the core of our framework, Earthquake Time Emergency Department Network Simulation Model (ET-EDNETSIM) resides which can simulate patient movements in a network of multiple and coordinated EDs. With the design of simulation experiments, different resource levels and sharing rules between EDs can be evaluated. We demonstrated our framework in a network of five EDs located in a region of which is estimated to have the highest injury rate after an earthquake in Istanbul, Turkey. Results of our study contributed to the planning for expected earthquake in Istanbul. Simulating a network of EDs extends the individual ED studies in the literature and furthermore, our hybrid framework can help increase earthquake preparedness in cities around the world. On the methodological side, the use of ANN, which is a member of machine learning (ML) algorithms family, in our hybrid framework also shows the close links between ML and DES.
Based on the finite fault inversion method, we investigated the rupture process of the May 2021 Yunnan Yangbi M(s)6.4 earthquake by regional broadband waveform records. The results indicate that the Yangbi earthquake occurred on a SE-striking right-lateral strike-slip fault. Most of rupture is concentrated in a region to the southeast of the hypocenter, with a maximum slip of 0. 55 m located at a depth of about 9 km. The obvious rupture reaches to a depth of about 13 km. The total seismic moment released by the whole fault is 1. 48 X10(18) N center dot m, equivalent to M(w)6. 05. The seismic energy is mainly released in the first 11 s. The rupture velocity becomes significantly faster at a depth of 6 similar to 8 km, which may aggravate the surface vibration.
Earthquakes occur by overcoming fault friction; therefore, quantifying fault resistance is central to earthquake physics. Values for both static and dynamic friction are required, and the latter is especially difficult to determine on natural faults. However, large earthquakes provide signals that can determine friction in situ. The Japan Trench Fast Drilling Project (JFAST), an Integrated Ocean Discovery Program expedition, determined stresses by collecting data directly from the fault 1-2 years after the 2011 M-w 9.1 Tohoku earthquake. Geological, rheological, and geophysical data record stress before, during, and after the earthquake. Together, the observations imply that the shear strength during the earthquake was substantially below that predicted by the traditional Byerlee's law. Locally the stress drop appears near total, and stress reversal is plausible. Most solutions to the energy balance require off-fault deformation to account for dissipation during rupture. These observations make extreme coseismic weakening the preferred model for fault behavior. Determining the friction during an earthquake is required to understand when and where earthquakes occur. Drilling into the Tohoku fault showed that friction during the earthquake was low. Dynamic friction during the earthquake was lower than static friction. Complete stress drop is possible, and stress reversal is plausible.
There exists many road embankments in Japan which are not earthquake resistant. For example, a road embankment collapsed at Okuradani IC in Hyogo Prefecture during the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake of 1995. In 2009, a road embankment along the Tomei Expressway collapsed during an earthquake with epicenter in Suruga Bay. Road failure makes relief activity and transportation of goods difficult, causing social damage. Furthermore, recovery of damaged embankments takes much time and cost. Accordingly, it is important to conduct research on methods of construction which would help build embankments inexpensively and swiftly. Against this background, a full-scale experiment was conducted at E-Defense to confirm the validity of a method of construction that uses flexible container bag to pack soil for quick embankment recovery. Generally, flexible container bags are easy to handle, and ensure and maintain the earthquake resistance performance of embankments after the completion of recovery work, taking the longer life time of the reinforced structure into consideration. In the experiment, two kinds of reinforced structures with flexible container bags stacked differently were placed at either toe of the slope of an embankment of height 4m, and shake tests were performed three times to compare the effectiveness of both reinforced structures. For both kinds of structures, the flexible container bags were stacked in two tiers and compressed from top and bottom using compression plates to make the structures rigid. One of the structures was one-tier type where the flexible container bags were stacked in series and the other was two-tier type where the flexible container bags were stacked along the side of the embankment. In the case with the target acceleration of sine wave of 376 Gal, crack occurred on the reinforced structure of one-tier type, but the embankment collapsed a little near the top of the slope. There was little displacement in both reinforced structures, hence, it is judged that the deformation would not impair the functionality of the road. As for the seismic performance, it can be said that the two-tier type would be slightly superior to one-tier type, however, this assumption cannot be evaluated decisively under the present circumstances. For practical use in future, form, size, workability, and economy of embankment should be examined for designing and construction which takes the specification of the structure into consideration.
West Sumatra is vulnerable to earthquakes and tsunami as it is located in the fault zone and the subduction zone between the Eurasian plate and the Indo-Australian plate spread from northern Sumatra to the southern island of Java, NTB, Sulawesi to Papua. This subduction zone affects the earthquake potential with shallow epicentrums even potentially causing tsunami. The purpose of this research is to analyze and map the potential earthquake area that can cause tsunami around subduction zone by using satellite image processing method with software GFZ data analysis. Based on the results of research and data processing obtained from BMKG and data analysis from GFZ, since the period of 2007 until 2017 there is often an earthquake with magnitude over 7.0 SR, with that magnitude it is estimated that tsunami disaster may occur. However, from the several earthquakes that occur, it can be concluded that the potential for the tsunami is quite small because it does not relevant with the classification of the occurrence of tsunami based on BMKG in 2012. As the result, the research can be used to conduct disaster mitigation against earthquake and tsunami in west Sumatra.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is common in youths after earthquakes, with parental psychopathology among the most significant predictors. This study investigated the contribution and the interactional effects of parental internalizing psychopathology, the severity of exposure to the earthquake, and past traumatic events to predict PTSD in offspring, also testing the reverse pattern. Two years after the 2012 earthquake in Italy, 843 children and adolescents (9-15 years) living in two differently affected areas were administered a questionnaire on traumatic exposure and the UCLA PTSD Reaction Index. Anxiety, depression, and somatization were assessed in 1162 parents through the SCL-90-R. General linear model showed that, for offspring in the high-impact area, predictors of PTSD were earthquake exposure, past trauma, and parental internalizing symptoms, taken individually. An interaction between earthquake exposure and parental depression or anxiety (not somatization) was also found. In the low-impact area, youth PTSD was only predicted by earthquake exposure. The reverse pattern was significant, with parental psychopathology explained by offspring PTSD. Overall, findings support the association between parental and offspring psychopathology after natural disasters, emphasizing the importance of environmental factors in this relationship. Although further research is needed, these results should be carefully considered when developing mental health interventions.
Boso Peninsula, Japan, was formed by the interaction of the Philippine Sea, Eurasian and Pacific plates around the trench-trench-trench Boso triple junction. Normal-type earthquakes are persistently observed in the subducting Philippine Sea slab under the peninsula at a depth of similar to 30 km, including a recent (2019) M-w 4.9 earthquake which caused shaking throughout the Kanto region (greater Tokyo). Such shallow intraplate earthquakes are potentially hazardous to this heavily populated region, yet their mechanism is poorly understood, especially in the context of a three-plate system. Here, we calculate stress rates in the Philippine Sea slab and the surrounding area, using a subduction model constructed in a previous study, to explain the generation of the regional stress field and its effect on earthquake occurrence. In general, the calculated stress rates under Boso Peninsula are horizontally extensional both above and below the Eurasian-Philippine Sea plate interface. We apply our calculated stress rates to the nodal planes of the observed earthquakes to calculate the Coulomb failure function (Delta CFF). These calculated Delta CFFs are generally positive on normal-type earthquakes under Boso. The Delta CFFs are also consistent with earthquakes in adjacent areas that are seismically active, for example, in the Philippine Sea plate to the south, in the collision zone around Izu Peninsula, and in the cluster in the Eurasian plate northeast of Boso Peninsula, which further supports our stress loading model. Calculation of the individual contributions of Philippine Sea plate and Pacific plate subduction shows that the development of the stress field around Boso is dependent upon contributions from both subducting plates. In contrast, the arc-arc collision at Izu Peninsula has little influence.
The Ning'er Mw 6.1 earthquake on 3 June 2007 occurred in the southwest to the Sichuan-Yunnan rhombic block with complicated seismic structures. The focal depth determined by the U.S. Geological Survey is only 5 km, but the field investigation did not find obvious surface ruptures in the epicenter area. The magnitude obtained by inverting the broadband waveforms is Mw 6.4 that is much larger than the Mw 6.1 calculated by U.S. Geological Survey, indicating this event is complicated. The Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar is used to study the fault geometry, coseismic slip model, and Coulomb stress changes around the seismic region. It shows that this event is mainly dominated by a right-lateral strike-slip fault with a slight thrust component. The fault plane is 28-km long along the strike and 14-km wide along the dip. The maximum slip is up to 1.02 m at a depth of 3.6 km and the released moment is 2.57 x 10(18) Nm, corresponding to a magnitude of Mw 6.25. The shallow source of this event is related to inelastic off-fault deformations along the fault or magma chamber. The lack of obvious surface ruptures indicates the strain is not completely released. The coseismic Coulomb stress changes suggest this earthquake has enhanced the stress on the Puwen fault and Mohei fault. The future seismic risks of these two faults and its adjacent regions cannot be ignored since aftershocks are fewer and the residual strain unreleased by the Ning'er event.
Earthquake every year leads to human and material losses and unpredictability of it by now makes this natural disaster worsen. The objective of the current study was to determine the anomalies in land surface temperature (LST) in areas affected by earthquakes. In this research, three earthquakes (M >6) were studied. Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer Aqua and Terra day and night LST data used from 2003 to 2018. The intcrquartile range (IQR) and mean +/- 2 sigma methods utilized to select anomalies. As a result, based on the IQR method, no prior and after anomaly detected in selected cases and data. Based on mean +/- 2 sigma, usually positive anomaly occurred during daytime. However, negative (or positive) anomaly occurred during the nighttime before the Mexico and Bolivia earthquakes. During 10 days after the earthquake, sometimes a negative anomaly detected.
The earthquakes are phenomena that have been closely linked to the Chilean culture, since over the centuries they have defined the development of this country, determining its economic growth and social welfare. It is necessary to understand that in Chile the earthquakes are a frequent thing for the geographical disposition of the territory and, in spite of the constant occurrence of these natural events, the santiaguinos always have been exposed to his consequences; therefore, these processes have exercised a notable influence in the way of designing, of constructing, of living and living in the city.
Seismo-magnetic investigation can play an important role in the investigation of various phenomena connected with earthquakes. The main target of this study is to investigate the magnetic variations associated with the swarm seismic activity along the fault structures in Gulf of Aqaba. Instrumental seismicity of Aqaba Gulf and magnetic observations were collected and analyzed during the period of 1982-2009. Seismo-magnetic effects were investigated through comparisons of magnetic and earthquake activity for long term and diurnal variations during the observed period. The distribution of these changes exhibited a distinguishing pattern, which could be related to the seismicity in certain periods of high swarm seismic activity and/or strong earthquakes. The seismo-magnetic effects were increased slowly and gradually with swarms but they were increased abruptly with strong earthquakes. Physically, this difference in Sq manners between swarm and strong earthquakes could be interpreted in view of stress force due to earthquakes and gaps along the segments fault of Aqaba Gulf which controlled the rocks containing highly magnetic constituents. The authors concluded that the seismo-magnetic effects were appreciated as a dependent element on the seismic swarm and large earthquake variables. Each of swarm and strong earthquakes has a specific manner of seismo-magnetic effect. This can be used as a powerful tool as a short-term prediction for anticipating strong earthquakes along the segmented fault of Aqaba Gulf.
Earthquake swarms with the possible largest magnitude greater than 5.0 frequently strike the Brawley seismic zone in southern California. The latest swarm of earthquakes occurred on 5 June 2021, including a magnitude 5.2 quake. The Salton Sea Geothermal Field lies at the northern end of the Brawley seismic zone. A good understanding of the detailed subsurface structure is necessary for seismic hazard assessment and the monitoring of geothermal resources exploration in this region. We apply the novel adjoint-state traveltime tomography method to image the crustal P- and S-wave velocity structures of the Brawley seismic zone and the adjacent area to the west. This new method requires no ray tracing but maintains a high level of accuracy in complex media. Highresolution P- and S-wave velocity models are constructed by inverting 85,321 first P-wave arrival times and 43,912 first S-wave arrival times, respectively. The velocity models reveal strong crustal heterogeneities. At 5-12 km depth the Brawley seismic zone is occupied by earthquake-prone high-velocity rocks; while the near surface is dominated by low-velocity sedimentary rocks. The source zone of the 1987 Superstition Hills earthquake sequence is filled with low-velocity rocks, possibly suggesting the presence of fluids. Fluids may have also played a critical role in the generation of earthquake swarms in the Brawley seismic zone.
The probability of earthquake in Tehran, large population and congestion in this city and unequal distribution of the population has increased the vulnerability of Tehran to the earthquake. One of the methods for reducing vulnerability is development of Disaster Preparedness Behavior (DPB). Fatalistic beliefs have a special effect on DPB. This study has evaluated the prevalence of religious and fatalistic beliefs to explain the people's needs in decreasing vulnerability and promoting their DPB during earthquakes. This study was a survey from October 21 to November 7, 2013. Data was gathered using questionnaire and survey during two weeks in 22 regions of Tehran. The study population consisted of the Tehran citizens aged >= 18 years old. Sampling was performed by Probability Proportional Size (PPS) sampling. A total of 1312 samples were included in the study. Among those participants who answered the question indicating their religion 99.5 %(963 persons) stated that they were Muslims. While 68.9% of participants had religious attitude toward earthquake crisis management, 57.9% did not have fatalistic views in this regard. However, 48.2% of participants expressed scientific approach toward earthquake crisis management.. In order to control fatalistic beliefs in earthquake disaster management and promote the people's DPB, the managers and policymakers are required to adopt proper strategies in this regard to increase education and train people to behave correctly, associate with their religious beliefs.
This paper presents a new copula-based earthquake early warning (EEW) decision-making strategy, aiming to characterize missed-alarm and false-alarm probabilities for an on-site EEW and determine an optimum threshold at which EEW should be set off with the lowest missed-alarm and false-alarm probabilities combined. On the basis of an existing PD3-PGV (PD3: peak ground displacement within the first three seconds after P-wave arrives; PGV: peak ground velocity) on-site EEW, the analysis shows that a copula model consisting of the Lognormal distribution, Weibull distribution, and Frank copula can satisfactorily model the PD3-PGV joint probability distribution. Accordingly, the optimum PD3 triggering thresholds for different PGV warning thresholds from 5 to 35 cm/s are presented for future references in the use of the PD3-PGV on-site EEW with maximum reliability.
The reliable forecast of imminent future earthquakes is still questionable due to uncertainties regarding the complex phenomena of earthquake occurrence and the hierarchical nature of the lithosphere. However, numerous retrospective studies suggest the implications of earthquake-accompanying processes within the context of earthquake forecasting. In this connection, an attempt is made here to verify the enhancement in thermal IR emissions associated with the extraordinary major (M 7.7) and shallow (depth approximate to 15 km) Awaran earthquake (Sep 24, 2013). The satellite thermal imagery record is analyzed to identify the possible effect of pre- and post-seismic changes around the epicentral region (latitude 25-29 degrees N; longitude 63-67 degrees E) for a suitable selected time window (July 27, 2013 to Nov 16, 2013). The pre-earthquake satellite imagery records reveal a very clear and distinct thermal anomaly developed within the earthquake preparation zone almost 6-10 days earlier, while the analysis of post-earthquake imagery record shows a decreasing trend of thermal anomaly as a function of time. The daily land surface temperature (LST) shows an anomalous rise of 7-9 degrees C on Sep 18, 2013, almost 6 days prior to the event occurrence, which is further authenticated by the statistical criterion (with a confidence interval of 95%. Furthermore, the comparative and percentile analysis of daily and 5-year-averaged LST also exhibits abnormal increase associated with this particular event. In addition to all above, the present study is also consistent with the earlier findings and suggests a multi-precursory strategy for earthquake forecasting research.
After a damaging earthquake, assessment of the residual seismic capacity is required for large parts of the building stock. Increased vulnerability of structures together with the threat of immediate aftershocks call for rapid and objective decision making. Structural identification has the potential to reduce parameter-value uncertainties of physics-based models through interpreting measurement data. Significant amounts of uncertainty are associated with the non-linear behaviour of structures during extreme events such as earthquakes. Therefore, a structural identification methodology that accommodates multiple sources of systematic modelling uncertainties is used. Error-domain model falsification (EDMF) enables structural identification through combining damage grades observed by visual inspection with fundamental frequencies that are derived from ambient vibrations. Parametric uncertainties of a hysteretic model are reduced with the two information sources in order to extrapolate the vulnerability of the building regarding future earthquakes. The applicability of the methodology is shown using measurements made on a mixed reinforced-concrete unreinforced-masonry building tested on a shaking table. Based on nonlinear time-history analyses involving single-degree-of-freedom models, EDMF leads to more precise, yet robust, vulnerability predictions of earthquake-damaged buildings when compared with prediction ranges that are obtained without data interpretation.
We present the theory and methods of earthquake rupture process inversion by using seismic and geodetic data, and their applications to scientific researches and earthquake emergency responses. It is shown that the knowledge obtained from these studies has much improved our understanding of the complexities of the earthquake source and causative mechanism of the earthquake disaster, and is of important reference value in earthquake disaster mitigation such as rapid earthquake emergency response. Especially since the 2008 M(w)7.9 (M(S)8.0) Wenchuan, Sichuan, earthquake, fast and routine determination of the earthquake rupture process has been performed for significant earthquakes (M-S >= 6.5 in China and M-S >= 7.5 worldwide), and the results obtained are timely reported to the authorities and released to the public on the web site. The time consumed by the inversion has been reduced from more than 5 hours in 2009 to approximately 1-3 hours at present. The timely released rupture model was routinely used by the China Earthquake Administration and other authorities during the earthquake emergency responses period for destructive earthquakes, such as the 2010 M(w)6.9 Yushu earthquake, the 2013 M(w)6.6 Lushan earthquake, the 2014 M(w)6.1 Ludian earthquake, and the 2015 M(w)7.8 Gorkha, Nepal, earthquake, among the others.
This study presents improvements on the hypocentral location method using the fuzzy logic approach proposed by Lin and Sanford (Bulletin of the Seismological Society of America 91:82-93,2001) in resolving regional earthquakes location. In addition to trying to determine epicentral parameters of the earthquake, focal depths are also attempted utilizing this method in a three-dimensional (3D) space. In this study, instead of P- and S- wave models, a trapezoidal membership function constructed by the direct use of travel time difference between the two stations forP- andS- arrival times was utilized. In this procedure, it is not necessary to precisely know the velocity structure of the studied area in order to map the uncertainties in arrival-times into the fuzzy logic space. The location determination process was performed with the defuzzification of only the grid points having the membership value of 1 obtained by normalizing all the maximum fuzzy output values of the highest values which gives more reliable epicentral locations for both real and synthetic earthquakes. The results show that this method for epicentral estimation works well if the depth of the earthquake is sufficiently shallow and according to the distance between the event and seismic network. In this method of hypocenter determination, firstly, epicenter coordinates are determined, then the hypocenter location is found by considering only the epicentral area in 3D. In the case of very shallow events (e.g., h < 10 km), the estimation of the focal depth using this method seems to fail, causing faulty results in the hypocenter coordinates; however, the estimation of epicentral coordinates is successful in giving a more reasonable epicentral location. Otherwise, the obtained results would be reversed. Consequently, the deeper the focal depth, the better the hypocenter location, but a worse epicenter determination. This method is only valid in the hypocentral location of the earthquake occurring in the upper crust because only primarily the arrivals ofPgandSgon the seismograms and a half-space velocity model are used. The hypocenter locations of some selected shallow earthquakes that occurred in the south east of the Aegean Sea have been determined by this method with results that are highly comparable with those obtained by other seismic agencies.
The M (W) 5.7 Changning earthquake occurred in southern Sichuan basin on 17 June 2019 and was the largest event ever recorded in this region. There are still some arguments existing about the causes of the earthquake and its possible links with water injections. Many studies on this earthquake have been performed, but the event depths obtained among them are significantly different and the source mechanisms also exhibit variations. In this study, we design an inversion scheme and use 3D Green's functions considering the rugged topography of this region to determine the event location and moment tensor of the Changning earthquake based on waveform fittings. The 3D model can reduce the uncertainty due to the approximation of 1D model and better constrain the solutions. The latitude and the longitude of event location are 28.34 degrees N and 104.82 degrees E respectively and the depth is 3.14 km. The nodal plane solutions are strike 295 degrees/dip 88 degrees/rake 14 degrees and strike 204 degrees/dip 76 degrees/rake 178 degrees. The percentages of DC, CLVD and ISO components are 10, -83, and -7%, respectively. The good waveform fittings at 17 broadband stations indicate the reliability of the source mechanism in this study.
Describing earthquake fault motion is indispensable to understanding the mechanism of tsunami generation. Moreover, seismic waves, excited by the fault motion, are analyzed in order to estimate the magnitude and location of earthquakes. The information is used to perform rapid tsunami calculations and predictions. At the same time, we should note that seismic waves sometimes function as noise among tsunami signals. This chapter introduces earthquake seismology, which is closely related to tsunami phenomena, and illustrates a practical method of seismic wave simulation. Section 4.1 explains a mathematical representation of an earthquake fault as a point source in order to quantitatively describe the relation between the fault motion and seismic waves. Section 4.2 explains an empirical scaling law representing the fault size from small to large earthquakes. We also introduce the idea of earthquake stress change (stress drop) as a mechanism behind the scaling law. Section 4.3 illustrates the finite difference method as a practical method of seismic wave simulation. By using this numerical method, we investigate seismic waves, ocean acoustic waves, and the permanent displacement caused by an earthquake. The simulation results can be used in the simulation of tsunami propagation.
On the basis of the data on perturbations in the Earth's atmosphere recorded before and after 52 significant earthquakes that occurred during the period from 1997 to 2018 in the Asian region, it is shown that the amplitudes of internal gravity waves that originated from seismically active regions can be used at the saturation threshold level for a short-term indication of upcoming seismic events.
A strong earthquake of magnitude M(w)6.8 struck Western Greece on 25 October 2018 with an epicenter at 37.515 degrees N 20.564 degrees E. It was preceded by an anomalous geolectric signal that was recorded on 2 October 2018 at a measuring station 70 km away from the epicenter. Upon analyzing this signal in natural time, we find that it conforms to the conditions suggested for its identification as precursory Seismic Electric Signal (SES) activity. Notably, the observed lead time of 23 days lies within the range of values that has been very recently identified as being statistically significant for the precursory variations of the electric field of the Earth. Moreover, the analysis in natural time of the seismicity subsequent to the SES activity in the area candidate to suffer this strong earthquake reveals that the criticality conditions were obeyed early in the morning of 18 October 2018, i.e., almost a week before the strong earthquake occurrence, in agreement with earlier findings. Finally, when employing the recent method of nowcasting earthquakes, which is based on natural time, we find an earthquake potential score around 80%.
Objective: To investigate the effectiveness of the 'Are We Prepared for an Earthquake?' education provided by nurses to students of sixth and seventh grades. Methods: The quasi-experimental study was conducted in Kemalpasa district of Izmir, Turkey, from October 2015 to May 2016, and comprised students of sixth and seventh grades at six middle schools in the 2015-16 academic year. Data was collected using 'Are We Prepared for an Earthquake?' questionnaire that included questions about socio-demographic variables, earthquake knowledge test, and family disaster preparation plans checklist. The score ranged from 0 to 20. An interactive packet education programme consisting of class presentation, game and animated videos was delivered and post-intervention scores were compared with baseline. Results: Of 1151 students, 559(48.5%) were in the sixth grade, and 592(51.4%) were in the seventh. The overall mean earthquake knowledge and family disaster preparedness scores increased significantly post-intervention (p-0.001). Conclusion: Targetted training created a significant change in both the knowledge level regarding earthquakes and the family disaster preparedness plans.
We develop a neural network (NN) architecture aimed at the midterm prediction of earthquakes. Our data-based model aims to predict if an earthquake with a magnitude above a threshold takes place at a given small area of size 10 km x 10 km in a midterm range of 10-50 days from a given moment. Our deep NN model has a recurrent part long short term memory (LSTM) that accounts for time dependencies between earthquakes and a convolutional part that accounts for spatial dependencies. Obtained results show that NNs-based models beat baseline feature-based models that also account for spatio-temporal dependencies between different earthquakes. Moreover, each part of our network is essential for its quality. For historical data on Japan earthquakes, our model predicts the occurrence of an earthquake in a period of 10 to 50 days from a given moment with magnitude $M_c > 5$ missing 2.09 center dot 10(3) earthquakes out of 3.11 center dot 10(3) and making 192 center dot 10(3) false alarms. The baseline approach misses 2.07 center dot 10(3) earthquakes but with a significantly higher number of false alarms 1004 center dot 10(3).
A strong earthquake with Mw 6.6 occurred on 20 July, 2017 in Gokova Bay at the southwest part of the Turkey, accompanied by a local tsunami which impacted Bodrum (Turkey) and Kos (Greece). This paper presents simulation of strong ground motions from this earthquake to visualize the extent of spectral acceleration over the region. A stochastic finite fault method based on a dynamic corner frequency is utilized as a simulation tool. For validation of simulation, strong motion recordings from 10 closest stations within 76 km are used. Horizontal to vertical spectral ratio and near surface attenuation parameter (kappa) of shear waves at strong motion recording stations are calculated to account for site effects. The most suitable source parameters; stress drop and pulsing area percentage are found as 2.5 MPa with 30-36% based on the residuals analyses. In general, an acceptable level of consistency is found between observed and simulated ground motions. Simulation is more successful at frequencies of 2 Hz and above. Distribution of spectral accelerations at a larger region is calculated with the best validated model parameters and compared with ground motion prediction equations. In spite of significant scatter of synthetics particularly in the near fault region, at longer epicentral distances the median values of Turkish empirical prediction better approximates the synthetics. The current results and further scenario simulations for the region are believed to complement normal faulting synthetic strong ground motion library of Turkey.
The earthquake early warning (EEW) system is capable of mitigating seismic hazards and reducing deaths, injuries, and economic losses. Although EEW approaches have already been developed worldwide, improving the accuracy and applicability is still controversial. Aiming at the ground motion estimation using the initial P wave, we investigated eight representative characteristic parameters, i.e., the peak measurements and integral quantities, using the database of the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake, where the aftershocks with the criteria that 4.0 <= Ms <= 6.5 and epicentral distance less than 150 km are analyzed. We established the relationships between the eight characteristic parameters and four ground motion parameters, respectively, based on which the estimation accuracy and reliability and the extent to which the increasingly expanding time windows could affect the estimates are analyzed accordingly. We found that the integral quantities could also be a robust estimator for peak ground acceleration (PGA), peak ground velocity (PGV), and spectral intensity (SI), while the peak measurement is more useful in estimating peak ground displacement (PGD). In addition, for estimating the ground motion of events with magnitudes less than 6.5, a 2-s window could effectively improve the estimation accuracy by approximately 11.5-18.5% compared with using a 1-s window, as the window increases to 3 s, the accuracy would further improve while the growth rate will be reduced to around 3.0-8.0%.
The city of Banda Aceh stands on Holocene fluvial basin sediment, surrounded by the Aceh and Seulimeum fault segments where large magnitude earthquakes can occur at any time. Such earthquakes could cause extensive physical infrastructure damages, injuries, and economic loss. This research aims to produce several earthquake scenarios, to determine the damage ratio of the buildings and its distribution in these different scenarios and to estimate the number of potential casualties and economic loss. Data analysis in this research includes modelling an earthquake by applying a ground motion model for shallow crustal earthquakes to yield an intensity map after the correction for site effects. The damage ratios for different types of buildings were calculated using the fragility curves of buildings that were developed by other researchers. Building occupants at different times, building damage ratios, and injury ratios were used to determine the number of injured residents in the earthquake scenario. The results show that Banda Aceh could be potentially experience earthquake ground motion within the intensity range from MMI VII to IX due to earthquakes of Mw 6.5 to Mw 7.0. The Mw 7.0 earthquake on the Aceh segment is the worst case scenario, causing building damage throughout Banda Aceh with casualty rates of 3.5-20% of the population in buildings in general if it happened during daytime, with economic loss about 3320 million USD. Mitigation and preparedness programs for the Banda Aceh community are therefore very important in order to reduce the potential level of damage, personal injury, and economic loss due to future earthquakes.
The determination of strong earthquakes' recurrence time above a predefined magnitude, associated with specific fault segments, is an important component of seismic hazard assessment. The occurrence of these earthquakes is neither periodic nor completely random but often clustered in time. This fact in connection with their limited number, due to shortage of the available catalogs, inhibits a deterministic approach for recurrence time calculation, and for this reason, application of stochastic processes is required. In this study, recurrence time determination in the area of North Aegean Trough (NAT) is developed by the application of time-dependent stochastic models, introducing an elastic rebound motivated concept for individual fault segments located in the study area. For this purpose, all the available information on strong earthquakes (historical and instrumental) with M-w >= 6.5 is compiled and examined for magnitude completeness. Two possible starting dates of the catalog are assumed with the same magnitude threshold, M-w >= 6.5 and divided into five data sets, according to a new segmentation model for the study area. Three Brownian Passage Time (BPT) models with different levels of aperiodicity are applied and evaluated with the Anderson-Darling test for each segment in both catalog data where possible. The preferable models are then used in order to estimate the occurrence probabilities of M-w >= 6.5 shocks on each segment of NAT for the next 10, 20, and 30 years since 01/01/2016. Uncertainties in probability calculations are also estimated using a Monte Carlo procedure. It must be mentioned that the provided results should be treated carefully because of their dependence to the initial assumptions. Such assumptions exhibit large variability and alternative means of these may return different final results.
The Geological Survey of Israel has upgraded and expanded the national Israeli Seismic Network (ISN), with more than 110 stations country-wide, as part of the implementation of a governmental decision to build a national Earthquake Early Warning (EEW) system named TRUAA. This upgraded seismic network exhibits a high station density and fast telemetry. The stations are distributed mainly along the main fault systems, the Dead Sea Transform, and the Carmel-Zfira Fault, which may potentially produce M-w 7.5 earthquakes. The system has recently entered a limited operational phase, allowing for initial performance estimation. Real-time performance during eight months of operation (41 earthquakes) matches expectations. Alert delays (interval between origin-time and Earthquake Early Warning alert time) are reduced to as low as 3 s, and source parameter errorstatistics are within expected values found in previous works using historical data playbacks. An evolutionary alert policy is implemented based on a magnitude threshold of Mw 4.2 and peak ground accelerations exceeding 2 cm/s(2). A comparison between different ground motion prediction equations (GMPE) is presented for earthquakes from Israel and California using median ground motion prediction equations values. This analysis shows that a theoretical GMPE produced the best agreement with observed ground motions, with less bias and lower uncertainties. The performance of this GMPE was found to improve when an earthquake specific stress drop is implemented.
This paper aims to analyse the extensive iconographic documentation relating to two major earthquakes that struck the province of Basilicata, in southern Italy, in 1851 and 1857. In both cases the damage was accurately represented in drawings, which provide valuable sources for understanding and analysing the region's urban and architectural heritage. The graphic works created by artists, architects and the engineer-geologist Robert Mallet introduce a fascinating cross-section of mid-19th-century Basilicata, which was characterised by an urban landscape shaped by frequent natural disasters and the transformations they brought about. The analysis and comparison of this iconographic documentation and descriptions are useful tools in the study of the region's constructions, the interpretation of the slow pace of change, and the impact that earthquakes had on the identity of small towns.
In the northern part of the Japan Trench, the 1933 Showa-Sanriku earthquake (M-w 8.4), an outer-trench, normal-faulting earthquake, occurred 37 yr after the 1896 Meiji-Sanriku tsunami earthquake (M-w 8.0), a shallow, near-trench, plate-interface rupture. Tsunamis generated by both earthquakes caused severe damage along the Sanriku coast. Precise locations of earth-quakes in the source areas of the 1896 and 1933 earthquakes have not previously been obtained because they occurred at considerable distances from the coast in deep water beyond the maximum operational depth of conventional ocean bottom seismographs (OBSs). In 2015, we incorporated OBSs designed for operation in deep water (ultradeep OBSs) in an OBS array during two months of seismic observations in the source areas of the 1896 and 1933 Sanriku earthquakes to investigate the relationship of seismicity there to outer-rise normal-faulting earthquakes and near-trench tsunami earthquakes. Our analysis showed that seismicity during our observation period occurred along three roughly linear trench-parallel trends in the outer trench region. Seismic activity along these trends likely corresponds to aftershocks of the 1933 Showa-Sanriku earthquake and the M-w 7.4 normal-faulting earthquake that occurred 40 min after the 2011 Tohoku-Oki earthquake. Furthermore, changes of the clarity of reflections from the oceanic Moho on seismic reflection profiles and low-velocity anomalies within the oceanic mantle were observed near the linear trends of the seismicity. The focal mechanisms we determined indicate that an extensional stress regime extends to about 40 km depth, below which the stress regime is compressional. These observations suggest that rupture during the 1933 Showa-Sanriku earthquake did not extend to the base of the oceanic lithosphere and that compound rupture of multiple or segmented faults is a more plausible explanation for that earthquake. The source area of the 1896 Meiji-Sanriku tsunami earthquake is characterized by an aseismic region landward of the trench axis. Spatial heterogeneity of seismicity and crustal structure might indicate the near-trench faults that could lead to future hazardous events such as the 1896 and 1933 Sanriku earthquakes, and should be taken into account in assessment of tsunami hazards related to large near-trench earthquakes.
The spatial pattern of diurnal variations in the temporal sequence of relatively strong earthquakes in the Garm Research Area in Tajikistan for 1955-1991 has been investigated. The earthquakes that occurred in the daytime and at night, as well as the value characterizing their difference, have been mapped separately. The differences in diurnal seismicity variations in a few local zones have been discussed. Compact areas with major daytime seismic events presumably related to quarry explosions have been identified. They are located far beyond the Garm Research Area at a considerable distance from the network of seismic stations. The sources of man-induced seismic events have not been found within the Garm Research Area. The identified large connected areas combine the cells dominated either by day or night earthquakes.
Rock mechanics studies and dynamic earthquake simulations show that patterns of seismicity evolve with time through (1) accumulation phase, (2) localization phase, and (3) rupture phase. We observe a similar pattern of changes in seismicity during the past century across California and Nevada. To quantify these changes, we correlate GPS strain rates with seismicity. Earthquakes of M > 6.5 are collocated with regions of highest strain rates. By contrast, smaller magnitude earthquakes of M >= 4 show clear spatiotemporal changes. From 1933 to the late 1980s, earthquakes of M4 were more diffused and broadly distributed in both high and low strain rate regions (accumulation phase). From the late 1980s to 2016, earthquakes were more concentrated within the high strain rate areas focused on the major fault strands (localization phase). In the same time period, the rate of M > 6.5 events also increased significantly in the high strain rate areas. The strong correlation between current strain rate and the later period of seismicity indicates that seismicity is closely related to the strain rate. The spatial patterns suggest that before the late 1980s, the strain rate field was also broadly distributed because of the stress shadows from previous large earthquakes. As the deformation field evolved out of the shadow in the late 1980s, strain has refocused on the major fault systems and we are entering a period of increased risk for large earthquakes in California.
We measure the longer-term effect of a major earthquake on the local economy, using night-time light intensity, and focus on the role of insurance payments for damaged residential property in the recovery process. The destructive Canterbury Earthquake Sequence (2010-2011) in New Zealand is our case study. Uniquely, for this event, >95% of residential housing units were covered by insurance and almost all incurred some damage. However, insurance payments were staggered over 5 years, enabling us to identify their local impact on recovery. We find that night-time luminosity can capture the process of recovery; and that insurance payments contributed significantly to the process of local economic recovery after the earthquake. Cash settlement of claims was no more effective than insurance-managed repairs in generating local recovery. Notably, delayed payments were less affective in assisting recovery; this suggests an important role for the regulator in making sure insurance payments are made promptly after disaster events.
An earthquake of moment magnitude (M-w) 7.8, the largest in the last 80 years, struck central Nepal on April 25, 2015. Named the Gorkha earthquake, it wreaked havoc on the country's central region, affecting 32 of 77 districts. The earthquake impacted nearly a million private houses, thousands of educational infrastructures, hundreds of health facilities, myriad cultural heritages and many other infrastructures. The National Reconstruction Authority (NRA) was established to lead the post-earthquake recovery and reconstruction and complete it within five years. This paper presents details of the earthquake's effects, the early response and the status of the post-earthquake reconstruction progress five years after the earthquake. Official reports from Nepalese government institutions, national and international authorities, government databases and research papers on the Gorkha earthquake were reviewed. The numbers of various infrastructures reconstructed and under construction each year after the earthquake and the reconstruction processes adopted are presented. The results show that 67% of private houses, 74% of educational institutions and 58% of health facilities were reconstructed in the five years.
Timber frame structures are common traditional methods of housing construction, which use squared-off timber beams, columns, and walls as lateral load-bearing members. The seismic performance of timber frame houses can be secured by the load-bearing capacity of erected braces and walls; however, past major earthquakes have caused severe damage to earthquake-resistant timber frame houses. This study investigates the effect of small-size fluid dampers on the earthquake damage reduction in a timber frame house through earthquake response analyses. A detailed analytical model was generated based on an actual two-story timber frame house, which was designed for the highest seismic grade using the latest Japanese standards. Time-history response analyses were carried out for the analytical model subjected to the 2016 Kumamoto earthquake with and without small-size fluid dampers. The small-size fluid damper is equipped with a relief mechanism for the damping force, and its damping property can be expressed using the Maxwell model. Four or seven fluid dampers were installed in the first story of the model to investigate their effect on the earthquake damage reduction. The results of the earthquake response analyses show that the four and seven fluid dampers can reduce the maximum first-story drift angle by approximately one-third and half, respectively. The dampers suppress the residual deformation, control the elongation of the fundamental period during the response, and restrain the amplitude growth. A small-size fluid damper has an equivalent quake resistance to a conventional structural wall with a wall ratio of 3 plus.
We report on the seven largest earthquakes for which we can detect unequivocal coseismic signals in the time-variable gravity (TVG) data of the GRACE (Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment) satellite mission during the GRACE era of 2002-2017. After reducing the land-hydrological effect according to model Global Land Data Assimilation System, we employ the empirical orthogonal function (EOF) analysis to solve for the spatial pattern and time history of the coherent (standing-oscillation) modes, which provide in an objective manner an overall view of the spatiotemporal scenario. The solved EOF mode for an earthquake-induced TVG typically features a spatial pattern (along with polarity) for the coseismic jump, in conjunction with the time series showing the jump (plus possible preseismic and postseismic variability). In all cases the earthquake EOF mode solutions match well with the least squares coseismic jump in both spatial pattern and amplitude and agree generally with previous reports in the literature. We conclude according to the examined cases that the lowest earthquake magnitude threshold that can be detected by GRACE is the Mw 8.3 of the 2013 deep-focus Okhotsk event, which in fact provides a testable case where the TVG we observe versus the seismologically derived source models may reflect different aspects of the source mechanism under different timescales. Plain Language Summary The Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment satellite has observed the gravity changes due to largest earthquakes during the satellite's operation era 2002-2017. We experiment with the numerical method of empirical orthogonal function and demonstrate its efficiency in solving not only the coseismic but also postseismic change behavior for seven largest earthquakes, down to the magnitude 8.3 Okhotsk Sea earthquake for which we find different behavior of the deep-focus event from the seismological models.
The earthquake nucleation process is inherently complex, due to an involvement of several deformation mechanisms with multiple spatial and time scales. Natural fault hosts a wide spectrum of slip rate from fast- to slow-slip. Before large earthquakes, the number of smaller magnitude events often increases, retrospectively named foreshocks. Foreshock can be interpreted to be a physical process implying unlocking of fault by fast-slip mode. Recent seismic and geodetic studies of foreshock sequences suggest that partial unlocking of fault took place episodically through interplay between fast- and slow-slip modes before some large earthquakes such as the 2011 Tohoku-Oki, the 2014 Iquique and the 2016 Kumamoto earthquakes. The partial unlocking causes stress loading onto the nearby critically loaded fault segments, resulting to triggering of subsequent dynamic and unstable slip. Alternatively, the partial unlocking of fault enhances the strength weakening of the earthquake nucleation area through slip invasion or fluid migration, that ultimately initiates the subsequent dynamic rupture. However, the manner of the unlocking is episodic, not smooth acceleration which has been typically observed as nucleation phase in laboratory experiment and numerical simulation model having simple fault zone structure. This episodic manner precludes a possibility of forecasting the subsequent large earthquake with a high degree of accuracy. The triggering of a subsequent large earthquake on nearby fault segments depends on the areal extent of the critically loaded seismic patches and how close these areas are to failure, even though the partial unlocking by both fast- and slow-slip processes is observed. An important research area is the development of methods for assessing the degree of criticality within fault segments adjacent to already ruptured portions. In addition, earthquake triggering probability by slow-slip transient shall be incorporated into operational earthquake forecasting scheme as future challenge, especially during the latter phase of the inter-seismic periods. [GRAPHICS] .
Training and education for enhancing evacuee safety is essential to reduce deaths, injuries and damages from disasters, such as fire and earthquake. However, traditional training approaches, e.g. evacuation drills, hardly simulate the real world emergency, which lead to the limitation of reality and poor interaction. In addition, traditional approaches may not provide investigation of participants' behavior during evacuations and give feedback after training. As a novel and effective alternative to overcome these limitations, in this paper, a VR-based training prototype system is designed and implemented for enhance earthquake evacuation safety. Key modules including earthquake scenario simulation, damage representation, interaction, player investigation and feedback are developed. In the immersive VR environment, players can be provided with learning outcomes as well as behavior feedback as crucial goals for safety training. Based on the result of the evaluation, this prototype has proven to be promising for enhancing earthquake evacuee safety and shows positive pedagogical functions.
The 8 August 2017 M-s 7.0 Jiuzhaigou earthquake was the largest event in continental China in the recent 3 yrs. It occurred at the north boundary of the Bayan Har block. The mechanism of the mainshock exhibited strike-slip faulting. Relocation of the aftershock sequence revealed a south-southeast-striking near-vertical plane, which is consistent with the south-southeast nodal plane of the focal mechanism. The earthquake was considered to rupture a branch of the eastern Kunlun fault system. The earthquake sequence was characterized by a relatively lower aftershock productivity and normal decay rate. Static Coulomb stress calculation suggested that the Jiuzhaigou mainshock was encouraged by the 2008 M-s 8.0 Wenchuan earthquake and promoted several faults in this region, such as the middle and western segment of the Tazang fault, the Minjiang fault, and the Xueshanliangzi fault. The maximum intensity was IX on the Chinese intensity scale.
In this paper we describe the macroseismic effects produced by the long and destructive seismic sequence that hit Central Italy from 24 August 2016 to January 2017. Starting from the procedure adopted in the complex field survey, we discuss the characteristics of the building stock and its classification in terms of EMS-98 as well as the issues associated with the intensity assessment due to the evolution of damage caused by multiple shocks. As a result, macroseismic intensity for about 300 localities has been determined; however, most of the intensities assessed for the earthquakes following the first strong shock on 24 August 2016, represent the cumulative effect of damage during the sequence. The earthquake parameters computed from the macroseismic datasets are compared with the instrumental determinations in order to highlight critical issues related to the assessment of macroseismic parameters of strong earthquakes during a seismic sequence. The results also provide indications on how location and magnitude computation can be strongly biased when dealing with historical seismic sequences.
This paper develops a decision making framework for post-earthquake assessment of instrumented buildings in a manner consistent with performance-based design criteria. This framework is achieved by simultaneously combining and advancing existing knowledge from seismic structural health monitoring and performance-based earthquake engineering paradigms. The framework consists of (1) measurement, (2) uncertainty modeling, (3) dynamic response reconstruction, (4) damage estimation, and (5) performance-based assessment and decision making. In particular, the main objective is to reconstruct inter-story drifts with a probabilistic measure of exceeding performance-based acceptance limits and determine the post-earthquake re-occupancy classification of the instrumented building of interest. Since the proposed framework is probabilistic, the outcome can be used to obtain the probability of losses based on the defined decision variables and be integrated into a risk-based decision making process by city officials, building owners, and emergency managers. The framework is illustrated using data from the Van Nuys hotel testbed, a seven-story reinforced concrete building instrumented by the California Strong Motion Instrumentation Program (CSMIP Station 24386).
The transition from quasistatic slip growth to dynamic rupture propagation constitutes one possible scenario to describe earthquake nucleation. If this transition is rather well understood for homogeneous faults, how the friction properties of multiscale asperities may influence the overall stability of seismogenic faults remains largely unclear. Combining classical nucleation theory and concepts borrowed from condensed matter physics, we propose a comprehensive analytical framework that predicts the influence of heterogeneities of weakening rate on the nucleation length Lc for linearly slip-dependent friction laws. Model predictions are compared to nucleation lengths measured from 2D dynamic simulations of earthquake nucleation along heterogeneous faults. Our results show that the interplay between frictional properties and the asperity size gives birth to three instability regimes (local, extremal, and homogenized), each related to different nucleation scenarios, and that the influence of heterogeneities at a scale far lower than the nucleation length can be averaged.
Natural disasters such as large earthquakes may rapidly result in cascading events such as post-earthquake fires (PEFs) to trigger. This is particularly the case in industrial facilities which is well known as natural-hazard triggered technological accidents (NaTechs). This study provides a response framework for NaTechs caused by earthquake in fuel storage facilities. To do this, seismic vulnerability of fuel storage tanks and possible damage fashions are studied. Considering fuel leakages can result in PEFs, possible scenarios are simulated numerically using Process Hazard Analysis Software Tool (PHAST). A case study including 20 fuel tanks adjacent one to another is investigated to simulate a domino effect when different arbitrary tanks start to ignite; hence, the worst case scenario can be determined. Based on the results of the case studied, inability to extinguish the possible PEFs over less than 9 min can lead to spreading them to the adjacent tanks. The results indicate that it takes about 40 min the adjacent tanks involve in the fires. Therefore, it is of paramount importance to provide an emergency response plan in advance to properly respond to the fires. The study here also highlights the role of preventive strategies in reducing the associated risks of PEFs in industrial facilities.
The data on the earthquakes of April 13 and 25, 1914 in Altai from (Novyi kataloga..., 1977) have been summarized. Based on an analysis of the earlier publications and the new data from the initial sources, it has been shown that the only seismic event occurred on April 25 (12 old style), 1914. The weak differentiation of macroseismic effects over the area does not allow us to reliably locate the epicenter; the best spatial accuracy is +/- 50 km. Based on the entire data volume, the magnitude is estimated at 5.5 +/- 0.3 which is slightly higher than was believed earlier.
Supporting earthquake risk management with clear seismic communication may necessitate encounters with various popular misapprehensions regarding earthquake prediction. Drawing on technical data as well as insights from anthropology and economics, this paper addresses common and scientifically-unsupported ideas about earthquake prediction, as well as the state of science-based studies regarding statistical forecasting and physical precursors. The authors reflect on documented social and economic effects of unsubstantiated earthquake predictions, and argue that these may be dangerous but may also present certain opportunities for outreach and education in formal and informal settings. This paper is written in light of the importance that the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction has placed on coordination and communication within and among diverse organizations and agencies as well as by the recent popularity of so-called earthquake prediction in Mexico.
Seismic data for 100 years (1918-2018) were analysed for probabilistic analysis in the forecast of probable future earthquakes above M-w >= 5.0 in North East India (20 degrees-30 degrees N and 86 degrees-98 degrees E) and its vicinity. The best distribution for seismic data allows probabilistic analysis to ascertain mean occurrence period E(t) for earthquakes of M-w >= 5.0. Here, Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistics has been utilized constrained by Weibull distribution to achieve the best fit on the dataset. E(t) is found to be 74 days approximately with 50% probability. Similarly, cumulative probability function indicates a time period of 140 days with 80% probability, while 400-500 days of recurrence time period is embedded with 90-100% probability for an earthquake of M-w >= 5.0 to recur following the occurrence of the last earthquake.
On 2016 December 25, an M-w 7.6 earthquake broke a portion of the Southern Chilean subduction zone south of Chiloe Island, located in the central part of the M-w 9.5 1960 Valdivia earthquake. This region is characterized by repeated earthquakes in 1960 and historical times with very sparse interseismic activity due to the subduction of a young (similar to 15 Ma), and therefore hot, oceanic plate. We estimate the coseismic slip distribution based on a kinematic finite-fault source model, and through joint inversion of teleseismic body waves and strong motion data. The coseismic slip model yields a total seismic moment of 3.94 x 10(20) N.m that occurred over similar to 30 s, with the rupture propagating mainly downdip, reaching a peak slip of similar to 4.2 m. Regional moment tensor inversion of stronger aftershocks reveals thrust type faulting at depths of the plate interface. The fore- and aftershock seismicity is mostly related to the subduction interface with sparse seismicity in the overriding crust. The 2016 Chiloe event broke a region with increased locking and most likely broke an asperity of the 1960 earthquake. The updip limit of the main event, aftershocks, foreshocks and interseismic activity are spatially similar, located similar to 15 km offshore and parallel to Chiloe Islands west coast. The coseismic slip model of the 2016 Chiloe earthquake suggests a peak slip of 4.2 m that locally exceeds the 3.38 m slip deficit that has accumulated since 1960. Therefore, the 2016 Chiloe earthquake possibly released strain that has built up prior to the 1960 Valdivia earthquake.
This study proposes a workflow that enables the accurate identification of earthquake-induced damage zones by using coherence image pairs of the Sentinel-1 satellite before and after an earthquake event. The workflow uses interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR) processing to account for coherence variations between coseismic and preseismic image pairs. The coherence difference between two image pairs is useful information to detect specific disasters in a regional-scale area after an earthquake event. To remove background effects such as the atmospheric effect and ordinal surface changes, this study employs the two-step threshold method to develop the coseismic coherence difference (CCD) map for our analyses. Thirty-four Sentinel-1 images between January 2015 and February 2016 were collected to process 30 preseismic image pairs and two coseismic image pairs for assessing multiple types of disasters in Tainan City of southwestern Taiwan, where severe damages were observed after the Meinong earthquake event. The coseismic unwrapping phases were further calculated to estimate the surface displacement in east-west and vertical directions. Results in the CCD map agree well with the observations from post-earthquake field surveys. The workflow can accurately identify earthquake-induced land subsidence and surface displacements, even for areas with insufficient geological data or for areas that had been excluded from the liquefaction potential map. In addition, the CCD details the distribution of building damages and structure failures, which might be useful information for emergency actions applied to regional-scale problems. The conversion of 2D surface displacement reveals the complex behavior of geological activities during the earthquake. In the foothill area of Tainan City, the opposite surface displacements in local areas might be influenced by the axis activities of the Kuanmiao syncline.
In this work, a new method for nonlinear time-history earthquake analysis of 2D steel frames by a fiber plastic hinge method is presented. The beam-column element based on the displacement-based finite element method is established and formulated in detail using a fiber plastic hinge approach and stability functions. Geometric nonlinearities are taken into accounting by stability functions and the geometric stiffness matrix. A nonlinear dynamic algorithm is established based on the combination of the Newmark integration method and the Newton-Raphson iterative algorithm for solving dynamic equations. The proposed program predicts the nonlinear inelastic responses of 2D steel frames subjected to earthquakes as efficiently and accurately as commercial software. This study also shows that the initial residual stresses of steel should be considered in nonlinear inelastic time-history earthquake analysis of 2D steel frames while SAP2000 does not consider the effects of residual stresses.
The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 (SFDRR) highlights the importance of scientific research, supporting the 'availability and application of science and technology to decision making' in disaster risk reduction (DRR). Science and technology can play a crucial role in the world's ability to reduce casualties, physical damage, and interruption to critical infrastructure due to natural hazards and their complex interactions. The SFDRR encourages better access to technological innovations combined with increased DRR investments in developing cost-effective approaches and tackling global challenges. To this aim, it is essential to link multi- and interdisciplinary research and technological innovations with policy and engineering/DRR practice. To share knowledge and promote discussion on recent advances, challenges, and future directions on 'Innovations in Earthquake Risk Reduction for Resilience', a group of experts from academia and industry met in London, UK, in July 2019. The workshop focused on both cutting-edge 'soft' (e.g., novel modelling methods/ frameworks, early warning systems, disaster financing and parametric insurance) and 'hard' (e.g., novel structural systems/devices for new structures and retrofitting of existing structures, sensors) risk-reduction strategies for the enhancement of structural and infrastructural earthquake safety and resilience. The workshop highlighted emerging trends and lessons from recent earthquake events and pinpointed critical issues for future research and policy interventions. This paper summarises some of the key aspects identified and discussed during the workshop to inform other researchers worldwide and extend the conversation to a broader audience, with the ultimate aim of driving change in how seismic risk is quantified and mitigated.
The objective of this study was to examine the longitudinal health consequences of the Wenchuan earthquake. Based on descriptive analyses of national-level data and multivariate analyses on a six-wave repeated cross-sectional survey, the findings suggested that after 8 years health risks remained high among earthquake-affected survivors; however, a process of recovery existed. To conceptualize these findings, in this study, we proposed a three-stage recovery model in which the postdisaster health status was divided into three stages: acute, stagnant, and adaptive. At each stage, the health risk varied, and over time, associations between health outcomes and protective factors varied. The three-stage recovery model identified the trends of long-term health consequences among adult earthquake survivors and provided guidance for postdisaster reconstruction in China on the basis of protective factors analyses.
An earthquake with an epicenter offshore of Hualien City in eastern Taiwan occurred at midnight on February 6, 2018. The Richter magnitude (M-L) of the earthquake was 6.26 and the seismic intensity ranged up to level VII, the strongest seismic intensity level regulated in Taiwan. Almost all the major damage resulting from this seismic event was occurred near both sides of the Milun Fault, where records from nearby strong motion stations displayed the characteristics of near-fault ground motions. The main seismic damage was the collapse of four buildings with soft bottom stories, one of which resulted in fourteen of the seventeen total fatalities. Comparing the acceleration response spectra with the design response spectra sheds light on the effects of near-fault ground motions on the collapsed buildings. Based on the eventual forms of collapsed buildings, building collapses that have generally led to major casualties in past seismic events around the world can be classified into sit-down, knee-down and lie-down types. In addition to the four collapsed buildings, seismic reconnaissance on other buildings, bridges, ports, and non-structural components have also been conducted. This study explores the issues and challenges arising from the reconnaissance results and thereby enhances learning from the seismic event.
An earthquake of magnitude 6.6 (ML) and 7.2 (Mw) occurred at 13: 41 p.m. local time on October 23, 2011 in the western of the Ercek Lake and about 20 km away from the city center of Van, Turkey (EQE-KOERI in The October 23, 2011 Van, Turkey earthquake (Mw = 7.2). Technical report. Istanbul, 2011). The earthquake was recorded using by the 22 accelerometers in the stations belong to National Strong Motion Observation Network (DEMP 2011. Republic of Turkey prime ministry disaster and emergency management presidency, Earthquake Department, 23-Oct-2011 Van Earthquake Report). The distance of these stations from the earthquake epicenter varies between 42 and 590 km. The closest station to the earthquake is Van-Muradiye acceleration-meter station and measured higher values of acceleration in N-S component, E-W direction and vertical direction are 178 cm/s(2), 168.5 cm/s(2) and 78.5 cm/s(2), respectively. The highest acceleration value was recorded at the N-S component in Van-Muradiye acceleration-meter station. Seismic intensity values calculated by using these acceleration values and for Van-Merkez earthquake, maximum intensity is predicted as IX whereas the maximum intensity value is predicted as VI for Van-Edremit earthquake. It is understood that the Everek Fault with approximately E-W direction has caused the earthquake. Focal mechanism solutions of Mw: 7.2 earthquakes reveal E-W oriented thrust fault mechanism. Since there were no marker to thrust faulting in the field as fault rupture, morphological indicators, other effects of earthquake like mass movements show that E-W oriented thrust fault named as Everek Fault is the primary source of this event. The most important proof of this idea was the aftershocks. Due to the Bitlis station is located the Southwestern edge of the fault and the high accelerations in the E-W component, it is seen that the forward directivity effect in the station records. The time of the earthquake is one of the important parameters determining the structural damage. It is also one of the important parameters of the strong motion earthquakes. The acceleration values greater than 50 gal (cm/s(2)) in the Van-Muradiye station has continued approximately 16 s. The area has important seismic activities and complex fault systems. The acceleration record in the Van-Muradiye station is very important to seismology of strong ground motion. When records of Muradiye and Van Stations area analyzed in terms of response spectra, both ground motions are below the design spectra defined for 1st degree earthquake zone. Buildings in Van city and Ercis district generally consists of 4-8 storey concrete structures, which is very common in Turkey. Therefore, due to the higher ground acceleration is greater than expected empirical values, the major damages has occurred in buildings.
Seismotectonic features of the Ahar-Varzaghan complex fault system are reviewed by the mainshocks/aftershocks study of the 2012 Ahar-Varzaghan earthquake doublet (Mw = 6.5 & Mw = 6.3). The early aftershocks were accurately monitored by a dense local seismological network. The mainshocks hypocenters were relocated using a new velocity model for the area. The regional displacement waveforms of the mainshocks and large aftershocks were jointly inverted for their moment tensors and centroids. Precisely located aftershocks are mostly distributed in three distinct clusters. These E-W trending clusters are situated to the north of the surface rupture over a similar to 30 km long and 10 km wide zone, extending from the ground surface down to the depth of similar to 15 km. Based on our results, the first mainshock (Ml) with Mw = 6.5 nucleated 3 km east of the surface rupture at a depth of 10 km. The rupture evolved toward the west and shallower depths on an almost E-W striking right-lateral strike-slip vertical fault plane and produced similar to 12 km surface rupture. Its main energy was released at about similar to 5 km west of the hypocenter at an average depth of S km. About 11 min later, the second mainshock (M2) with Mw = 6.3 nucleated 51cm northwest of the Ml hypocenter and at a depth of 15 km. It occurred on an ENE-WSW striking, north-dipping (65 degrees to 70 degrees) fault plane with a dominant reverse mechanism and strike-slip component. The M2 related rupture also expanded to the west and to shallower depths and released most of its energy 5 km west of the respective hypocenter at an average depth of 11 km. The eastern aftershocks mainly show the right -lateral strike-slip mechanism on almost E-W trending fault, close to the location of the first main centroid (M1). The northern aftershocks mostly include reverse mechanisms with strike-slip component near the M2 centroid. A big gap of aftershock activity is observed close to the M1 centroid location, most likely associated with the area of maximum slip. We do not observe any N-S lineament of aftershocks neither near the M2 hypocenter and nor its centroid, thus making the suggestion of some previous investigators that M2 ruptured an N-S trending fault unlikely.
Decades-long experimental databases become accessible in global earthquake engineering community. Yet, complex interactions of a multitude of variables pose formidable challenges to data-driven research. We embarked upon developing an advanced statistical learning and prediction framework with the generalized additive model (GAM). We showed promising performance of GAM with applications to existing RC shear wall databases. Without any prejudice, GAM can predict structural responses accurately using raw databases, and also can identify salient attributes. This study addresses computational implementation and parallel processing, and all codes are made publicly available to promote data-driven research of earthquake engineering community.
In view of the frequent occurrence of large earthquakes, researchers have been always looking for ways to study and analyze these risky phenomena. Today, abnormal changes in ionosphere are taken as a means for this purpose. This article concentrates on the application of the T2-Hotelling test for detecting significant changes in the Total Electron Content (TEC) as an ionospheric parameter. The Global Ionosphere Maps (GIMs) are used for this purpose. The basic assumption is that TECs are normally distributed. This has been analyzed by using ten normality tests. Proposed method statistically analyzes the mean TEC changes using two samples of TECs. The first or the reference sample is 30 days long. The second or the target sample which is a moving one in time is 4 days long. The method is applied to the entire globe and therefore is a global method in nature. TECs associated with high solar and/or geomagnetic activity are not used when the reference sample is made. A sample of 12 earthquakes, occurred in 2010, with the moment magnitudes greater than 6 is used to analyze the efficiency of the proposed method. For 75% of the earthquakes in this study, proposed method confirms the seismo-ionospheric anomalies some of which have been already reported in the other researches. The rest of the studied quakes conform to the assertion that seismo-ionospheric anomalies might not be clearly visible even for some large earthquakes.
Past disasters have consistently led to unequal housing recovery for different economic groups, in large part, because of the difficulty of obtaining funding for low-income groups. Current earthquake recovery models simplify the financing process for homeowners to rebuild after earthquakes, and in consequence, cannot fully capture disparities in the recovery outcomes of economic groups. In this article, we develop an agent-based financing model for post-earthquake housing recovery. We focus on single-family, owner-occupied homes. The model includes funding from earthquake insurance, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Small Business Administration, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, private banks, Non-Governmental Organizations, and personal savings. We present a case study investigating the housing recovery financing in the economically diverse city of San Jose, California, following a hypothetical 7.0 M-w earthquake. By including the financial model in housing recovery simulations, we quantify inequalities in recovery time and total reconstruction completion between income groups. We complement the case study by evaluating several strategies to reduce these disparities and show that a combination of income-targeted funding and redistribution of construction crews can reduce inequalities in regional housing recovery.
Earthquakes are often attributed to a myriad of human casualties, but its variation is quite remarkable across countries. This paper first presents a conceptual analysis to understand why earthquake casualties vary across countries. After that, using a rich panel dataset of countries observed over half a century, from 1950 to 2009, this paper provides empirical evidence that the middle-income countries are more susceptible to earthquake casualties because of its higher level of vulnerable buildings relative to the low- and high-income countries. This finding retains its robustness when I use different income-based criteria of country classification, control for earthquake probabilities, capture institutional effects, and devise alternative specifications. The results suggest that the governments can significantly reduce earthquake casualties by emphasising on the quality-rather than quantity-of built environment through enforcing quake-resistant regulations.
Earthquakes occurring naturally or induced by human activities can damage surface and subsurface infrastructure. Oil and gas wells represent a category of subsurface infrastructure that can act as leakage pathways connecting oil and gas reservoirs, groundwater aquifers, and the atmosphere. The integrity of these wells can be compromised through a wide range of processes and contribute to groundwater contamination, greenhouse gas emissions, and air quality degradation. We estimate the increase in such subsurface leakage potential due to seismic activity through geospatial analysis of 579,378 oil and gas well and 196,315 earthquake (magnitudes greater than 1.0) locations in Oklahoma, California, and British Columbia. We perform density-based clustering analysis and point density mapping using ArcGIS. We combine the well and earthquake point density maps to identify hot spots of joint high well and earthquake densities. We find that oil and gas wells and earthquakes are clustered in space, with densities reaching similar to 60 wells per km(2) and similar to 40 earthquakes per km(2) in California. There are at least two hot spots where these clusters overlap in each state/province. In Oklahoma and British Columbia, the hot spots are more correlated with earthquake densities; while, in California, the hot spots are more correlated with well densities. Our findings indicate the need to investigate the role of earthquakes on wellbore leakage through additional analysis of earthquake characteristics, wellbore attributes, improved data collection, and empirical field studies for all oil and gas wells, including those that are abandoned. In particular, large scale geospatial analysis establishing the scope of the problem and empirical field studies focusing on identified hot spots are needed to understand potential environmental impacts of earthquakes, especially those induced by oil and gas activities.
This paper represents the laboratory model supporting the scientific concept of Tbilisi State University ELF monitoring net creation initiative. The project concerns the consistent development of a dense ELF network for Caucasus and Anatolian-Iranian Plateau tectonic faults system to observe the critical state of some physical variables before and after of accumulated tectonic energy discharge in earthquake form. The main characteristics of the Earth's seismic process show that earthquakes should be attributed to phenomena of self organizing criticality. In accordance with this representation, an earthquake, or the energy discharge of fault, is an unpredictable phenomenon determined by entire system development. But lunisolar tension modulation synchronizes the triggering moments. Earthquake statistics of Caucasus demonstrates that discharge favorable time intervals are computable. One can try to predict earthquakes occurrence probability and power if monitors the evolution and critical state of some physical variables of the system. This indicates the existence of a class of phenomena of self-organized criticality with parametric modulation of criticality conditions. This class of phenomena should be investigated on the laboratory model. This model can serve as a basis for creating an idea of partial predictability of self criticality. We represent the model and the results of criticality parametric modulation experiments.
The study presents the earthquake performance of the Bosphorus Bridge under multi-point earthquake excitation considering the spatially varying site-specific earthquake motions. The elaborate FE model of the bridge is firstly established depending on the new considerations of the used FEM software specifications, such as cable-sag effect, rigid link and gap elements. The modal analysis showed that singular modes of the deck and the tower were relatively effective in the dynamic behavior of the bridge due to higher total mass participation mass ratio of 80%. The parameters and requirements to be considered in simulation process are determined to generate the spatially varying site-specific ground motions. Total number of twelve simulated ground motions are defined for the multi-support earthquake analysis (Mp-sup). In order to easily implement multi-point earthquake excitation to the bridge, the practice-oriented procedure is summarized. The results demonstrated that the Mp-sup led to high increase in sectional forces of the critical components of the bridge, especially tower base section and tensile force of the main and back stay cables. A close relationship between the dynamic response and the behavior of the bridge under the Mp-sup was also obtained. Consequently, the outcomes from this study underscored the importance of the utilization of the multi-point earthquake analysis and the necessity of considering specifically generated earthquake motions for suspension bridges.
The diurnal variation of GPS-TEC data recorded at the low-latitude station Agra (Geograph. lat. 27.2 degrees N, long. 78 degrees E) has been analyzed for a period of 9 years between 2007 and 2018 to examine whether the ionospheric perturbations are caused by low-magnitude earthquakes (M < 5) and if so, what may be the spatial scales of perturbations in such cases. The results show that low-magnitude earthquakes also cause perturbation and the spatial scales of perturbation are large varying between 1000 and 2000 km, much higher than those given by Dobrovolsky et al. (Pure Appl Geophys 117:1025, 1979) relation. The profile factor (P-factor) analysis has been introduced to identify earthquake-induced anomalies from those produced by magnetic storms. It is found that the P-factor increases with increasing magnitude of earthquakes from M = 4 to M = 6 and then decreases. The results show that turbulent variations occur in the months of large earthquakes as precursors with periods decreasing with decreasing magnitude of earthquakes. This result is interpreted in terms of excitations of atmospheric gravity waves (AGW) over the epicenters of earthquakes.
Earthquakes are dynamic rupture events that initiate, propagate, and terminate on faults within the Earth's crust. Understanding rupture termination is essential for accurately estimating the maximum magnitude earthquake a region might experience. We study termination on sequences of M - 2.5 earthquakes that rupture a 3-m granite laboratory sample. At this large scale, nucleation, propagation, and termination are either completely or partially confined within the sample-unique observations for experiments on rock. We compare measured termination locations to estimates from a fracture mechanics-based model to quantify the fracture energy of the laboratory earthquakes, which compare well with estimates from small natural quakes. Our results provide a mathematical framework that links micrometer-scale friction parameters to meter-scale earthquake mechanics, shows that a 3-m slab of granite can behave similar to a 200-mm sheet of glassy polymer, and demonstrates how small events can prime a fault for larger, damaging ones. Plain Language Summary We have built a machine that squeezes a 3-m long slab of granite to generate sequences of slip events that spontaneously rupture a precut planar fault within the rock, similar to how earthquakes rupture faults within the Earth. While slip events generated on most rock mechanics machines rupture through the entire sample, the slip events we generate at this large scale are more realistic of natural earthquakes because rupture often stops after propagating only part-way down the rock sample. We describe a model that allows us to quantify where and why a rupture stops as a function of the stress distribution on the fault and friction properties. By matching the model to the experiment we estimate the fault's fracture energy. The model can also be used to show how small earthquakes can prepare a fault for a larger one.
Tectonic tremors, low-frequency earthquakes, very low-frequency earthquakes, and slow slip events are all regarded as components of broadband slow earthquakes, which can be modeled as a stochastic process using Brownian motion. Here we show that the Brownian slow earthquake model provides theoretical relationships among the seismic moment, seismic energy, and source duration of slow earthquakes and that this model explains various estimates of these quantities in three major subduction zones: Japan, Cascadia, and Mexico. While the estimates for these three regions are similar at the seismological frequencies, the seismic moment rates are significantly different in the geodetic observation. This difference is ascribed to the difference in the characteristic times of the Brownian slow earthquake model, which is controlled by the width of the source area. We also show that the model can include non-Gaussian fluctuations, which better explains recent findings of a near-constant source duration for low-frequency earthquake families.
Devastating landslides were frequently triggered by earthquakes and caused severe damage and human losses. More than 25,000 people were killed by the Wenchuan earthquake-induced landslides. A proper model for estimating loss of lives is important in quantifying the human risks posed by earthquake-induced landslides. This paper presents a new model for quantitatively estimating the human vulnerability to earthquake-induced landslides using Bayesian networks. A database incorporating information of fatal landslides induced by the Wenchuan earthquake is established. A Bayesian network is constructed according to a logic structure of loss-of-life mechanisms by considering four types of key factors, i.e., deposit thickness, building damage, evacuation, and resistance capacity. The probabilities of the nodes (factors) and the arcs (inter-relationships) of the network are quantified according to statistical data, judgment based on experiences, and existing physical or empirical models. The human vulnerability to earthquake-induced landslides is quantitatively estimated through constructing a systematic structure considering the uncertainties of the control factors and their inter-relationships. Comparison between the recorded fatality rate and predicted fatality is conducted to verify the proposed model. Finally, sensitivity analysis is conducted to identify the most important parameters that lead to loss of lives.
Turkey is one of the most important countries in terms of natural gas consumption and transmission capacity. Turkey is an important transmission zone for international pipelines such as Baku-Ceyhan and Natural Gas Pipeline Project between Asia and Europe through Turkey (NABUCCO). This region also has very active and major fault lines. For this reason, the safety of natural gas networks and transmission pipelines subject to earthquake effects has become very important. In this paper, an area prone to earthquake-induced landslides in Istanbul has been studied to demonstrate the behavior of a natural gas pipeline network. This area is located near the North Anatolian Fault Zone (NAFZ), and an earthquake with a magnitude of approximately 7.5 is expected in Istanbul in the upcoming years. For this investigated region, seismic vulnerability of natural gas pipelines subject to permanent ground deformation and seismic-wave propagation effects have been investigated, and risks have been highlighted. Using elastic beam theory, a new approximation has been developed to calculate earthquake effects on buried continuous pipelines. Based on the new method, obtained results have been examined. (C) 2017 American Society of Civil Engineers.
The earthquake and its secondary geological disasters have some long-term effects on vegetation recovery, and the spatiotemporal differentiation of vegetation coverage in earthquake stricken areas are often not valued by researchers. Beichuan County in Sichuan Province is the worst-hit area during Wenchuan earthquake, tracking the vegetation coverage in this disaster area can provide feedback for post-earthquake ecological restoration. Based on remote sensing (RS) and Geographic information system (GIS), this paper relies on dimidiate pixel model (DPM) and vegetation coverage transfer matrix to explore the vegetation coverage of the earthquake worst-hit area. The results show that the overall level of vegetation coverage in Beichuan county is high, and earthquakes are dominant in the areas with high vegetation coverage. Besides, earthquake can do most severe damages to the areas with high vegetation coverage, followed by medium damage impacting to the areas with medium vegetation coverage, but the damage of other areas are relatively small. From 2007 to 2020, the average vegetation coverage in Beichuan County decreased from 0.835 in 2007 to 0.755 in 2008, then gradually recovered to 0.826 in 2020, experiencing a sharp decline and then a steady increase. The recovery of vegetation coverage is improved over time, but the spatiotemporal differences of the recovery process are obvious. Elevation has the largest driving force on vegetation coverage (q = 0.569, p less than 0.001), followed by temperature and rainfall; the interaction between factors has a significant increasement in the spatial differentiation of vegetation coverage, indicating that vegetation coverage is a combination result of multiple factors. The research findings can help construct the scientific management of the eco-environment in the disaster area, it can also help builda medium to long-term ecological restoration plan according to the variation in vegetation coverage.(c) 2022 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier BV on behalf of Faculty of Engineering, Alexandria University This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/ licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
Hong Kong is situated in an intraplate area of low to moderate seismicity, where recorded strong-motion accelerograms are scarce. As part of the seismic design process, dynamic time-history analysis is sometimes required for assessing the seismic performance of structures. Hence, earthquake accelerograms representative of various local design hazard levels are needed. This study aims to develop a methodology for building up a database of earthquake accelerograms for the Hong Kong region which can be used for the analysis and design of a variety of structural and geotechnical systems. An outline of the previous probabilistic seismic hazard analysis studies conducted for Hong Kong is first presented and several design earthquake scenarios are determined, which contribute most to the local seismic hazard given a specific return period. The median response spectra and conditional mean spectra of the selected earthquake scenarios for reference rock sites are then derived based on the component attenuation model. The conditional mean spectra are then used as the target spectra for the selection and scaling of recorded accelerograms sourced from the available global database. Finally, a suite of conditional mean spectra-compatible accelerograms for rock sites is presented, from which event-specific and site-specific accelerograms are generated through dynamic site response analysis.
Radon concentration changes are one of the natural anomalies that occur before an earthquake occurs. These events can be used as a medium to predict earthquakes. The detection system contains an ionization chamber, signal processor, system controller, data storage and electrical power supply. The detector placed on a chamber room to capture the accumulate radon emission is collected in the room. The detection system that has been developed is expected to be the first step to conduct studies on earthquake predictions. The detector system shows detection of the earthquake precursors anomaly which is radon concentration changes. To validate the results of this study, data that has been recorded on data storage media will be compared with secondary data from BMKG (Indonesian Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency). From June until August 2018, the radon concentration has a change of 0.1 pCi/l to 0.6 pCi/l respectively; the earthquake occurs within the next three days. This shows a fresh breeze in the earthquake prediction study field that the changes in radon concentration in Yogyakarta can be used as a medium to predict earthquakes. This report is in order to provide valuable information about the development system that can be used for earthquake prediction, although further studies and development of instrumentation systems from other earthquake precursor anomalies are needed.
Objective: Posttraumatic growth (PTG) is a commonly observed phenomenon in the wake of a distressing event, capturing potentially beneficial effects for posttraumatic adaptation. However, it is not entirely clear what factors are essential for the development of PTG, especially after natural disasters. Most importantly, it is uncertain what type of relationship exists between posttraumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) and PTG. As yet, there is also no consensus on whether PTG can best be seen as a process outcome or as a coping mechanism. The current study aimed to elucidate these uncertainties. Method: The study explored PTG in a community sample (N = 412) 10-11 months after a major earthquake in Christchurch, New Zealand. Nonsymptomatic predictors of PTG were assessed 4-7 months after the earthquake, and symptomatic predictors were assessed both 4-7 and 10-11 months after the earthquake, with PTG measured in the second assessment. Results: Results showed that the unique relationship between PTSS and PTG was modeled best both linearly and curvilinearly, suggesting that PTSS over a certain level shift from a positive association with PTG to a negative one. PTG was predicted by being female, having less household income, PTSS symptoms modeled linearly and curvilinearly at Time 1, and PTSS modeled linearly at Time 2. Conclusion: Support was found for the coping model of PTG, suggesting the importance of fostering growth to manage posttraumatic distress.
Earthquakes are one of the deadliest natural disasters. Our study focuses on detecting temporal patterns of earthquakes occurring along intraplate faults in the New Madrid seismic zone (NMSZ) within the middle of the United States from 1996-2016. Based on the magnitude and location of each earthquake, we developed a Bayesian clustering method to group hypocentres such that each group shared the same temporal pattern of occurrence. We constructed a matrix-variate Dirichlet process prior to describe temporal trends in the space and to detect regions showing similar temporal patterns. Simulations were conducted to assess accuracy and performance of the proposed method and to compare to other commonly used clustering methods such as Kmean, Kmedian and partition-around-medoids. We applied the method to NMSZ data to identify clusters of temporal patterns, which represent areas of stress that are potentially migrating over time. This information can then be used to assist in the prediction of future earthquakes.
On January 21st, 2016, a Ms 6.4 earthquake hit Menyuan County, Qinghai province, China. The nearest known fault is the Leng Long Ling (LLL) fault which is located approximately 7 km north of the epicenter. This fault has mainly shown sinistral strike-slip movement since the late Quaternary Period. However, the focal mechanism indicates that it is a thrust earthquake, which is different from the well-known strike-slip feature of the LLL fault. In this study, we determined the focal mechanism and primary nodal plane through multi-step inversions in the frequency and time domain by using the broadband regional seismic waveforms recorded by the China Digital Seismic Network (CDSN). Our results show that the rupture duration was short, within 0-2 s after the earthquake, and the rupture expanded upwards along the fault plane. Based on these fault parameters, we then solve for variable slip distribution on the fault plane using the InSAR data. We applied a three-segment fault model to simulate the arc-shaped structure of the northern LLL fault, and obtained a detailed slip distribution on the fault plane. The inversion results show that the maximum slip is 0.43 m, and the average slip angle is 78.8 degrees, with a magnitude of Mw 6.0 and a focal depth of 9.38 km. With the geological structure and the inversion results taken into consideration, it can be suggested that this earthquake was caused by the arc-shaped secondary fault located at the north side of the LLL fault. The secondary fault, together with the LLL fault, forms a normal flower structure. The main LLL fault extends almost vertically into the base rock and the rocks between the two faults form a bulging fault block. Therefore, we infer that this earthquake is the manifestation of a neotectonics movement, in which the bulging fault block is lifted further up under the compresso-shear action caused by the Tibetan Plateau pushing towards the northwest direction.
The design of acceleration-sensitive nonstructural elements is closely related to the peak floor acceleration (PFA) responses. We propose an improved method for estimating PFAs in buildings during earthquakes. This introduces a complementary mode accounting for the ground accelerations properly. It is equally practical as conventional response spectral analysis but provides accurate predictions of PFA at the base. We first derive the representative PFA distribution for the complementary mode upon linear dynamic analyses and then generalize the method to nonlinear cases. An error analysis concludes that the proposed method is promising for both linear elastic and moderately inelastic cases.
Complex rupture processes are occasionally resolved for weak earthquakes and can reveal a dominant direction of the rupture propagation and the presence and geometry of main slip patches. Finding and characterizing such properties could be important for understanding the nucleation and growth of induced earthquakes. One of the largest earthquakes linked to wastewater injection, the 2016 M-w 5.1 Fairview, Oklahoma earthquake, is analyzed using empirical Green's function techniques to reveal its source complexity. Two subevents are clearly identified and located using a new approach based on relative hypocenter-centroid location. The first subevent has a magnitude of M-w 5.0 and shows the main rupture propagated toward the NE, in the direction of higher pore pressure perturbations due to wastewater injection. The second subevent appears as an early aftershock with lower magnitude, M-w 4.7. It is located SW of the mainshock in a region of increased Coulomb stress, where most aftershocks relocated.
The biggest challenge and criticism on active control systems in earthquake engineering applications point out the issues that could occur because of a possible power loss of the active controller system during an earthquake. The power supply of an active control system can be disabled during an earthquake. This study is written to introduce a simple structural model to overcome the challenges defined above, and to investigate the performance of this system. The integrated active and semi-active control system is named as INASA. The proposed control method of the INASA system both minimizes integrated active and semi-active control energy, as well as the structural energies. A building with an active tendon controller system, with the integration of an MR damper, is considered as an example structure. For numerical validation of the INASA system, near-fault and far-fault earthquakes are used. The electrical current need for operation of the MR damper as well as the time-delay effects of the active tendon controllers are also taken into account for more realistic dynamic simulations. The dynamic performance of the INASA system under different earthquakes is compared to the building equipped with the MR damper the conventional uncontrolled structure. The results showed that the INASA system could work without any stability problems under both earthquakes. Time-delays did not have a negative effect on the system. And a reasonable reduction in uncontrolled response is achieved with very small power requirement. In the possible case of a power loss, the deactivation of the active tendon control system did not lead to a discrepancy, because the MR damper continued to operate with a very small power requirement and showed a good performance.
